Born and raised in Houston, Texas, she performed in various singing and dancing competitions as a child, and rose to fame in the late 1990s as lead singer of R&B girl-group Destiny's Child	When did Beyonce start becoming popular?
Beyoncé also ventured into acting, with a Golden Globe-nominated performance in Dreamgirls , and starring roles in The Pink Panther and Obsessed 	After her second solo album, what other entertainment venture did Beyonce explore?
"A self-described ""modern-day feminist"", Beyoncé creates songs that are often characterized by themes of love, relationships, and monogamy, as well as female sexuality and empowerment"	In her music, what are some recurring elements in them?
Beyoncé's younger sister Solange is also a singer and a former member of Destiny's Child	Beyonce's younger sibling also sang with her in what band?
Mary's Elementary School in Fredericksburg, Texas, where she enrolled in dance classes	What town did Beyonce go to school in?
After seeing the group, R&B producer Arne Frager brought them to his Northern California studio and placed them in Star Search, the largest talent show on national TV at the time	Who decided to place Beyonce's group in Star Search the talent show?
"In 1997, Destiny's Child released their major label debut song ""Killing Time"" on the soundtrack to the 1997 film, Men in Black"	Which film featured Destiny's Child's first major single?
Beyoncé experienced depression following the split with Luckett and Roberson after being publicly blamed by the media, critics, and blogs for its cause	What mental health issue did Beyonce go through?
"The remaining band members recorded ""Independent Women Part I"", which appeared on the soundtrack to the 2000 film, Charlie's Angels"	"""Charlie's Angels"" featured which single from the band members?"
In July 2002, Beyoncé continued her acting career playing Foxxy Cleopatra alongside Mike Myers in the comedy film, Austin Powers in Goldmember, which spent its first weekend atop the US box office and grossed $73 million	"Who did Beyonce star with in the movie, ""Austin Powers in Goldmember""?"
"Beyoncé's first solo recording was a feature on Jay Z's ""'03 Bonnie & Clyde"" that was released in October 2002, peaking at number four on the U"	What was the highest Beyonce's first solo recording achieved in the Billboard Hot 100?
However, this was put on hold so she could concentrate on recording Destiny Fulfilled, the final studio album by Destiny's Child	Destiny's Child's final album was named what?
It sold 541,000 copies in its first week and debuted atop the Billboard 200, becoming Beyoncé's second consecutive number-one album in the United States	How many albums did Beyonce sell in the first week when she released her second album?
Her first acting role of 2006 was in the comedy film The Pink Panther starring opposite Steve Martin, grossing $158	What movie did Beyonce act in 2006?
On April 4, 2008, Beyoncé married Jay Z	Beyonce got married in 2008 to whom?
Beyoncé further expanded her acting career, starring as blues singer Etta James in the 2008 musical biopic, Cadillac Records	Beyonce portrayed which character in the film, Cadillac Records?
At the 52nd Annual Grammy Awards, Beyoncé received ten nominations, including Album of the Year for I Am	How many awards was Beyonce nominated for at the 52nd Grammy Awards?
"Beyoncé announced a hiatus from her music career in January 2010, heeding her mother's advice, ""to live life, to be inspired by things again"""	Beyonce would take a break from music in which year?
In 2011, documents obtained by WikiLeaks revealed that Beyoncé was one of many entertainers who performed for the family of Libyan ruler Muammar Gaddafi	In which year was reports about Beyonce performing for Muammar Gaddafi surface?
Her fourth studio album 4 was released on June 28, 2011 in the US	Beyonce's fourth album debuted in what year?
4	What is the name of Beyoncé's fourth studio album?
On January 7, 2012, Beyoncé gave birth to her first child, a daughter, Blue Ivy Carter, at Lenox Hill Hospital in New York	When did Beyonce have her first child?
"In January 2013, Destiny's Child released Love Songs, a compilation album of the romance-themed songs from their previous albums and a newly recorded track, ""Nuclear"""	Destiny's Child released a compilation album about which topic?
Carter Show World Tour on April 15 in Belgrade, Serbia; the tour included 132 dates that ran through to March 2014	"How many dates did Beyonce's ""The Mrs. Carter Show"" entail?"
On December 13, 2013, Beyoncé unexpectedly released her eponymous fifth studio album on the iTunes Store without any prior announcement or promotion	Where did Beyonce release her 5th album to a huge surprise?
"At the 57th Annual Grammy Awards in February 2015, Beyoncé was nominated for six awards, ultimately winning three: Best R&B Performance and Best R&B Song for ""Drunk in Love"", and Best Surround Sound Album for Beyoncé"	How many awards did Beyonce take home with her at the 57th Grammy Awards?
"On February 6, 2016, one day before her performance at the Super Bowl, Beyoncé released a new single exclusively on music streaming service Tidal called ""Formation"""	"Beyonce released the song ""Formation"" on which online music service?"
As of April 2014, the couple have sold a combined 300 million records together	As of April 2014, how many albums have Jay Z and Beyonce sold together?
"In August, the couple attended the 2011 MTV Video Music Awards, at which Beyoncé performed ""Love on Top"" and started the performance saying ""Tonight I want you to stand up on your feet, I want you to feel the love that's growing inside of me"""	Jay Z and Beyonce attended which event together in August of 2011?
"Two days later, Jay Z released ""Glory"", a song dedicated to their child, on his website Lifeandtimes"	Which song by Jay Z talked about the pregnancy struggles?
In July 2013, Beyoncé and Jay-Z attended a rally in response to the acquittal of George Zimmerman for the shooting of Trayvon Martin	Beyonce and Jay-Z went to a rally for the acquittal of whom?
"In an interview published by Vogue in April 2013, Beyoncé was asked if she considers herself a feminist, to which she said, ""that word can be very extreme"	Beyonce did an interview with which magazine and was asked about feminism?
In 2015 Beyoncé signed an open letter which the ONE Campaign had been collecting signatures for; the letter was addressed to Angela Merkel and Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma, urging them to focus on women as they serve as the head of the G7 in Germany and the AU in South Africa respectively, which will start to set the priorities in development funding before a main UN summit in September 2015 that will establish new development goals for the generation	Beyonce signed a letter with who in 2015?
Following the death of Freddie Gray, Beyoncé and Jay-Z, among other notable figures, met with his family	Beyonce along with Jay Z met with whom's family after their death?
Forbes magazine began reporting on Beyoncé's earnings in 2008, calculating that the $80 million earned between June 2007 to June 2008, for her music, tour, films and clothing line made her the world's best-paid music personality at the time, above Madonna and Celine Dion	Beyonce beat out which musical artists for most paid between June 2007 and June 2008?
Beyoncé's vocal range spans four octaves	Beyonce's range in singing is how many octaves?
Beyoncé's music is generally R&B, but she also incorporates pop, soul and funk into her songs	Music from Beyonce is generally categorized as what genre?
However, she does not formulate beats herself, but typically comes up with melodies and ideas during production, sharing them with producers	Beyonce does not create which aspect of her music?
Beyoncé was the third woman to have writing credits on three number one songs in the same year, after Carole King in 1971 and Mariah Carey in 1991	Pop Songwriter of the Year award in 2001 was awarded to whom?
Beyoncé names Michael Jackson as her major musical influence	To whom did Beyonce credit as her major influence on her music?
The feminism and female empowerment themes on Beyoncé's second solo album B'Day were inspired by her role in Dreamgirls and by singer Josephine Baker	What themes were influenced by her acting role in Dreamgirls?
"Beyoncé has stated that she is personally inspired by US First Lady Michelle Obama, saying ""She proves you can do it all"" and she has described Oprah Winfrey as ""the definition of inspiration and a strong woman"""	"Beyonce has noted which first lady with saying ""She proves you can do it all""?"
In 2006, Beyoncé introduced her all-female tour band Suga Mama which includes bassists, drummers, guitarists, horn players, keyboardists and percussionists	Beyonce had an all-female tour band whose name was what?
Beyoncé has received praise for her stage presence and voice during live performances	What characteristics has Beyonce received acclaim for?
"Described as being ""sexy, seductive and provocative"" when performing on stage, Beyoncé has said that she originally created the alter ego ""Sasha Fierce"" to keep that stage persona separate from who she really is"	Beyonce self proclaimed alter ego is named what?
"Beyoncé has been described as a having a wide-ranging sex appeal, with music journalist Touré writing that since the release of Dangerously in Love, she has ""become a crossover sex symbol"""	Beyonce's sex appeal is characterized as what?
In September 2010, Beyoncé made her runway modelling debut at Tom Ford's Spring/Summer 2011 fashion show	in September 2010, what career area did Beyonce start exploring?
Her mother co-wrote a book, published in 2002, titled Destiny's Style an account of how fashion had an impact on the trio's success	Which parent of Beyonce's help co-write a book?
The Bey Hive is the name given to Beyoncé's fan base	Beyonce has a fan base that is referred to as what?
In 2006, the animal rights organization People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals , criticized Beyoncé for wearing and using fur in her clothing line House of Deréon	Beyonce has a clothing line known as what?
Beyoncé's lighter skin color and costuming has drawn criticism from some in the African-American community	Which racial community gave criticism to Beyonce?
""" When The Guardian named her Artist of the Decade, Llewyn-Smith wrote, ""Why Beyoncé"	Artist of the Decade was bestowed upon Beyonce from which magazine?
American indie rock band White Rabbits also cited her an inspiration for their third album Milk Famous , friend Gwyneth Paltrow studied Beyoncé at her live concerts while learning to become a musical performer for the 2010 film Country Strong	Which rock band cited Beyonce on their third album?
"Her debut single, ""Crazy in Love"" was named VH1's ""Greatest Song of the 2000s"", NME's ""Best Track of the 00s"" and ""Pop Song of the Century"", considered by Rolling Stone to be one of the 500 greatest songs of all time, earned two Grammy Awards and is one of the best-selling singles of all time at around 8 million copies"	"VH1 declared what song the ""Greatest song of the 2000s?"""
As a solo artist she has sold over 15 million albums in the US, and over 118 million records worldwide , making her one of the best-selling music artists of all time	How many copies of her albums as Beyonce sold in the US?
Beyoncé has won 20 Grammy Awards, both as a solo artist and member of Destiny's Child, making her the second most honored female artist by the Grammys, behind Alison Krauss and the most nominated woman in Grammy Award history with 52 nominations	How many Grammys has Beyonce won total with and without Destiny's Child?
Beyoncé has worked with Pepsi since 2002, and in 2004 appeared in a Gladiator-themed commercial with Britney Spears, Pink, and Enrique Iglesias	Which soda company has Beyonce partnered with since 2002?
Beyoncé has worked with Tommy Hilfiger for the fragrances True Star and True Star Gold; she also promoted Emporio Armani's Diamonds fragrance in 2007	Beyonce worked with who on her perfumes, True Star and True Star Gold?
Beyoncé also has had deals with American Express, Nintendo DS and L'Oréal since the age of 18	How young was Beyonce when she acquired deals from American Express and L'Oreal?
In October 2014, it was announced that Beyoncé with her management company Parkwood Entertainment would be partnering with London-based fashion retailer Topshop, in a new 50/50 split subsidiary business named Parkwood Topshop Athletic Ltd	Who did Bayonce's management go into business with in 2014?
On March 30, 2015, it was announced that Beyoncé is a co-owner, with various other music artists, in the music streaming service Tidal	When was it discovered Beyonce was a co-owner of the music service, Tidal?
Beyoncé and her mother introduced House of Deréon, a contemporary women's fashion line, in 2005	House of Dereon became known through Beyonce and which of Beyonce's relatives?
In 2005, Beyoncé teamed up with House of Brands, a shoe company, to produce a range of footwear for House of Deréon	What type of accessory company did Beyonce partner with in 2005?
In October 2014, Beyoncé signed a deal to launch an activewear line of clothing with British fashion retailer Topshop	Beyonce, during October 2014, partnered with whom to produce an outdoor line of clothing?
After Hurricane Katrina in 2005, Beyoncé and Rowland founded the Survivor Foundation to provide transitional housing for victims in the Houston area, to which Beyoncé contributed an initial $250,000	What national disaster caused Beyonce to create the Survivor Foundation?
"Beyoncé participated in George Clooney and Wyclef Jean's Hope for Haiti Now: A Global Benefit for Earthquake Relief telethon and was named the official face of the limited edition CFDA ""Fashion For Haiti"" T-shirt, made by Theory which raised a total of $1 million"	Who did Beyonce participate with in the Hope for Haiti Now: A Global Benefit?
"In December, Beyoncé along with a variety of other celebrities teamed up and produced a video campaign for ""Demand A Plan"", a bipartisan effort by a group of 950 US mayors and others designed to influence the federal government into rethinking its gun control laws, following the Sandy Hook Elementary School shooting"	"Which national event caused Beyonce to produce ""Demand a Plan?"""
pɛ̃]; 22 February or 1 March 1810 – 17 October 1849), born Fryderyk Franciszek Chopin, was a Polish and French composer and a virtuoso pianist of the Romantic era, who wrote primarily for the solo piano	What was Frédéric's nationalities?
At the age of 21 he settled in Paris	At what age did Frédéric move to Paris?
All of Chopin's compositions include the piano	What instrument did every composition by Frédéric include?
In his native Poland, in France, where he composed most of his works, and beyond, Chopin's music, his status as one of music's earliest superstars, his association with political insurrection, his love life and his early death have made him, in the public consciousness, a leading symbol of the Romantic era	What was the degree of Frédéric's association with political insurrection?
Fryderyk Chopin was born in Żelazowa Wola, 46 kilometres west of Warsaw, in what was then the Duchy of Warsaw, a Polish state established by Napoleon	In what village was Frédéric born in?
Nicolas tutored children of the Polish aristocracy, and in 1806 married Justyna Krzyżanowska, a poor relative of the Skarbeks, one of the families for whom he worked	Who did Frédéric's father marry in 1806?
In October 1810, six months after Fryderyk's birth, the family moved to Warsaw, where his father acquired a post teaching French at the Warsaw Lyceum, then housed in the Saxon Palace	During what month did Frédéric move to Warsaw with his family?
Fryderyk may have had some piano instruction from his mother, but his first professional music tutor, from 1816 to 1821, was the Czech pianist Wojciech Żywny	Who was Frédéric's first professional teacher in music?
In 1817 the Saxon Palace was requisitioned by Warsaw's Russian governor for military use, and the Warsaw Lyceum was reestablished in the Kazimierz Palace 	In what year was the Saxon Palace taken by the Russian governor for use regarding the military?
From September 1823 to 1826 Chopin attended the Warsaw Lyceum, where he received organ lessons from the Czech musician Wilhelm Würfel during his first year	During what years did Frédéric visit the Warsaw Lyceum for lessons?
 In 1824 and 1825, at Szafarnia, he was a guest of Dominik Dziewanowski, the father of a schoolmate	Who was Frédéric a guest of during his visit of Szafarnia in 1824 and 1825?
In 1827, soon after the death of Chopin's youngest sister Emilia, the family moved from the Warsaw University building, adjacent to the Kazimierz Palace, to lodgings just across the street from the university, in the south annex of the Krasiński Palace on Krakowskie Przedmieście, where Chopin lived until he left Warsaw in 1830	During what year did Frédéric's youngest sister, Emilia, pass away?
Four boarders at his parents' apartments became Chopin's intimates: Tytus Woyciechowski, Jan Nepomucen Białobłocki, Jan Matuszyński and Julian Fontana; the latter two would become part of his Paris milieu	Of the individuals that became intimate with Frédéric during their stay at the family apartments, which two became part of Frédéric's social environment in Paris?
In September 1828 Chopin, while still a student, visited Berlin with a family friend, zoologist Feliks Jarocki, enjoying operas directed by Gaspare Spontini and attending concerts by Carl Friedrich Zelter, Felix Mendelssohn and other celebrities	Who did Frédéric visit Berlin with in September 1828?
Back in Warsaw that year, Chopin heard Niccolò Paganini play the violin, and composed a set of variations, Souvenir de Paganini	What did Frédéric compose after hearing Niccolò Paganini perform on the violin?
"Chopin's successes as a composer and performer opened the door to western Europe for him, and on 2 November 1830, he set out, in the words of Zdzisław Jachimecki, ""into the wide world, with no very clearly defined aim, forever"	On what date did Frédéric begin his journey into Western Europe?
Chopin arrived in Paris in late September 1831; he would never return to Poland, thus becoming one of many expatriates of the Polish Great Emigration	What event was Frédéric a part of when he arrived in Paris during the later part of September in 1831?
In Paris, Chopin encountered artists and other distinguished figures, and found many opportunities to exercise his talents and achieve celebrity	In what city did Frédéric achieve celebrity status?
"His fellow student at the Warsaw Conservatory, Julian Fontana, had originally tried unsuccessfully to establish himself in England; Albert Grzymała, who in Paris became a wealthy financier and society figure, often acted as Chopin's adviser and ""gradually began to fill the role of elder brother in life"	Which friend of Frédéric failed to achieve success in England?
At the end of 1831, Chopin received the first major endorsement from an outstanding contemporary when Robert Schumann, reviewing the Op	Who gave Frédéric his first significant public approval in regards to his compositions?
He played more frequently at salons, but preferred playing at his own Paris apartment for small groups of friends	What was Frédéric's favorite environment to perform in?
In the spring of 1834, Chopin attended the Lower Rhenish Music Festival in Aix-la-Chapelle with Hiller, and it was there that Chopin met Felix Mendelssohn	Who did Frédéric meet in the spring of 1834 at the Lower Rhenish Music Festival?
"Although it is not known exactly when Chopin first met Liszt after arriving in Paris, on 12 December 1831 he mentioned in a letter to his friend Woyciechowski that ""I have met Rossini, Cherubini, Baillot, etc"	Who was the recipient of Frédéric's letter he wrote on 12 December 1831?
The two became friends, and for many years lived in close proximity in Paris, Chopin at 38 Rue de la Chaussée-d'Antin, and Liszt at the Hôtel de France on the Rue Lafitte, a few blocks away	What address did Frédéric live at during his stay in Paris?
Although the two displayed great respect and admiration for each other, their friendship was uneasy and had some qualities of a love-hate relationship	What term describes the qualities of the relationship between Frédéric and Liszt?
In 1836, at a party hosted by Marie d'Agoult, Chopin met the French author George Sand Aurore Dupin)	Who was the host of the gathering where Frédéric was introduced to George Sand?
In June 1837 Chopin visited London incognito in the company of the piano manufacturer Camille Pleyel where he played at a musical soirée at the house of English piano maker James Broadwood	What city did Frédéric visit in June 1837?
"On 3 December, Chopin complained about his bad health and the incompetence of the doctors in Majorca: ""Three doctors have visited me"	How many doctors saw Frédéric by the 3rd of December?
3	How many doctors visited Chopin?
Although this period had been productive, the bad weather had such a detrimental effect on Chopin's health that Sand determined to leave the island	What is stated as having a negative effect on Frédéric's health during this productive time?
On 26 July 1840 Chopin and Sand were present at the dress rehearsal of Berlioz's Grande symphonie funèbre et triomphale, composed to commemorate the tenth anniversary of the July Revolution	What event were Chopin and Sand at on 26 July 1840?
Among the visitors to Nohant were Delacroix and the mezzo-soprano Pauline Viardot, whom Chopin had advised on piano technique and composition	Which of the two people that visited Chopin were tutored by him on piano?
From 1842 onwards, Chopin showed signs of serious illness	In which year did Chopin begin experiencing a serious decline in health?
Chopin's relations with Sand were soured in 1846 by problems involving her daughter Solange and Solange's fiancé, the young fortune-hunting sculptor Auguste Clésinger	What was the name of Sand's daughter's fiance that contributed to deteriorating the relationship between Sand and Chopin?
"Although these works were more refined than many of his earlier compositions, Zamoyski opines that ""his powers of concentration were failing and his inspiration was beset by anguish, both emotional and intellectual"	What can be said of these works compared to his work in other years even though the quantity was less?
In February 1848, with the cellist Auguste Franchomme, he gave his last Paris concert, which included three movements of the Cello Sonata Op	In what month and year did Chopin give his final performance?
Chopin's life was covered in a BBC TV documentary Chopin – The Women Behind The Music , and in a 2010 documentary realised by Angelo Bozzolini and Roberto Prosseda for Italian television	What television station made a documentary on Chopin?
The 1945 biographical film A Song to Remember earned Cornel Wilde an Academy Award nomination as Best Actor for his portrayal of the composer	What was the name of the 1945 movie released about Chopin?
Chopin was written by Giacomo Orefice and produced in Milan in 1901	When was the first fictionalized account of Chopin's life?
The earliest manifestation was probably an 1830 sonnet on Chopin by Leon Ulrich	An 1830 sonnet was written about Chopin by what man?
On the occasion of the composer's bicentenary, the critics of The New York Times recommended performances by the following contemporary pianists : Martha Argerich, Vladimir Ashkenazy, Emanuel Ax, Evgeny Kissin, Murray Perahia, Maurizio Pollini and Krystian Zimerman	On Chopin's 200th anniversary critics of what publication made recommendations on recordings of Chopin's work?
""" The earliest recording was an 1895 performance by Paul Pabst of the Nocturne in E major Op"	What year was the earliest Chopin recording created?
The world's oldest monographic music competition, the International Chopin Piano Competition, founded in 1927, is held every five years in Warsaw	What is the name of the oldest music essay competition?
Chopin's music was used in the 1909 ballet Chopiniana, choreographed by Michel Fokine and orchestrated by Alexander Glazunov	What is the name of the ballet that included Chopin's work?
In April, during the Revolution of 1848 in Paris, he left for London, where he performed at several concerts and at numerous receptions in great houses	Where did Chopin head to during the Revolution of 1848?
In London Chopin took lodgings at Dover Street, where the firm of Broadwood provided him with a grand piano	Where did Chopin stay while in London?
In late summer he was invited by Jane Stirling to visit Scotland, where he stayed at Calder House near Edinburgh and at Johnstone Castle in Renfrewshire, both owned by members of Stirling's family	Where did Jane Stirling invite Chopin?
Chopin made his last public appearance on a concert platform at London's Guildhall on 16 November 1848, when, in a final patriotic gesture, he played for the benefit of Polish refugees	When did Chopin last appear in public?
Occasionally he played, or accompanied the singing of Delfina Potocka, for his friends	Who did Chopin play for while she sang?
In June 1849 his sister Ludwika came to Paris with her husband and daughter, and in September, supported by a loan from Jane Stirling, he took an apartment at Place Vendôme 12	When did his sister come to stay with Chopin?
Chopin requested that his body be opened after death and his heart returned to Warsaw where it rests at the Church of the Holy Cross	Why did Chopin request being cut open after his death?
His death certificate gave the cause as tuberculosis, and his physician, Jean Cruveilhier, was then the leading French authority on this disease	What is listed as Chopin's official cause of death?
The funeral, held at the Church of the Madeleine in Paris, was delayed almost two weeks, until 30 October	Where was Chopin's funeral held?
Mozart's Requiem was sung at the funeral; the soloists were the soprano Jeanne-Anais Castellan, the mezzo-soprano Pauline Viardot, the tenor Alexis Dupont, and the bass Luigi Lablache; Chopin's Preludes No	What song was sung at Chopin's funeral?
Chopin's tombstone, featuring the muse of music, Euterpe, weeping over a broken lyre, was designed and sculpted by Clésinger	Who sculpted Chopin's tombstone?
Over 230 works of Chopin survive; some compositions from early childhood have been lost	How many of Chopin's works still exist?
Chopin was educated in the tradition of Beethoven, Haydn, Mozart and Clementi; he used Clementi's piano method with his own students	Whose piano method did Chopin teach his students?
Chopin took the new salon genre of the nocturne, invented by the Irish composer John Field, to a deeper level of sophistication	Who is credited with creating the nocturne?
""" The series of seven polonaises published in his lifetime , beginning with the Op"	How many polonaises were published while Chopin lived?
Some of Chopin's well-known pieces have acquired descriptive titles, such as the Revolutionary Étude (Op	What is another title Op. 10, No. 12 has garnered? 
The last opus number that Chopin himself used was 65, allocated to the Cello Sonata in G minor	What was the last number Chopin gave to an opus?
The present standard musicological reference for Chopin's works is the Kobylańska Catalogue , named for its compiler, the Polish musicologist Krystyna Kobylańska	The Kobylańska Catalogue was named for who?
The first collected edition was by Breitkopf & Härtel 	Who released the first collection of Chopin's works?
Improvisation stands at the centre of Chopin's creative processes	What is central to Chopin's process?
"Barrie Jones suggests that ""amongst the works that Chopin intended for concert use, the four ballades and four scherzos stand supreme"", and adds that ""the Barcarolle Op"	What does J. Barrie Jones feel stands supreme of Chopin's concert pieces?
The mazurkas often show more folk features than many of his other works, sometimes including modal scales and harmonies and the use of drone basses	Chopin's mazurkas contain more of what than his other compositions? 
As with the traditional polonaise, Chopin's works are in triple time and typically display a martial rhythm in their melodies, accompaniments and cadences	What time are Chopin's polonaises written in?
The 21 nocturnes are more structured, and of greater emotional depth, than those of Field 	How many nocturnes did Chopin compose?
Chopin's études are largely in straightforward ternary form	What pieces of his did Chopin use to teach his technique?
Bach's The Well-Tempered Clavier, Chopin's preludes move up the circle of fifths to create a prelude in each major and minor tonality	What piece of Bach's did Chopin take inspiration for his preludes?
58, written in 1844) are in four movements	How many movements are No. 2, Op. 35 and No. 3, Op 58 in?
Chord progressions sometimes anticipate the shifting tonality of later composers such as Claude Debussy, as does Chopin's use of modal harmony	Chopin's chord progressions are similar in style to what other composer?
His style was based extensively on his use of very independent finger technique	What was Chopin's style based upon?
"Barrie Jones, his ""one worthy successor"" among his compatriots was Karol Szymanowski "	According to J. Barrie Jones who was the only true successor to Chopin?
"Jonathan Bellman writes that modern concert performance style—set in the ""conservatory"" tradition of late 19th- and 20th-century music schools, and suitable for large auditoria or recordings—militates against what is known of Chopin's more intimate performance technique"	Who wrote that the current large concert style conflicts with Chopin's preference of intimate performances?
"Chopin's music is frequently played with rubato, ""the practice in performance of disregarding strict time, 'robbing' some note-values for expressive effect"""	Chopin's compositions are often played with what?
"Friederike Müller, a pupil of Chopin, wrote: "" playing was always noble and beautiful; his tones sang, whether in full forte or softest piano"	According to who did Chopin demand strictly sticking with rhythm?
With his mazurkas and polonaises, Chopin has been credited with introducing to music a new sense of nationalism	Chopin was noted as introducing music to what?
"Barbara Milewski suggests that Chopin's experience of Polish music came more from ""urbanised"" Warsaw versions than from folk music, and that attempts to demonstrate genuine folk music in his works are without basis"	"Who said that Chopin's familiarity with Polish music was more ""urbanised"" than true folk music?"
Although Chopin's music undoubtedly came to him intuitively rather than through any conscious patriotic design, it served all the same to symbolize the will of the Polish people	William Atwood suggested that Chopin's music wasn't purposely patriotic but what?
"While his illness and his love-affairs conform to some of the stereotypes of romanticism, the rarity of his public recitals led Arthur Hutchings to suggest that ""his lack of Byronic flamboyance his aristocratic reclusiveness make him exceptional"" among his romantic contemporaries, such as Liszt and Henri Herz"	Arthur Hutchings stated that Chopin's lack of what made him special?
Schumann named a piece for him in his suite Carnaval, and Chopin later dedicated his Ballade No	In what suite did Schumann name a work for Chopin?
Debussy dedicated his own 1915 piano Études to the memory of Chopin; he frequently played Chopin's music during his studies at the Paris Conservatoire, and undertook the editing of Chopin's piano music for the publisher Jacques Durand	Who dedicated his 1915 piano Études to Chopin?
Some Mainland Chinese scholars, such as Wang Jiawei and Nyima Gyaincain, assert that the Ming dynasty had unquestioned sovereignty over Tibet, pointing to the Ming court's issuing of various titles to Tibetan leaders, Tibetans' full acceptance of these titles, and a renewal process for successors of these titles that involved traveling to the Ming capital	Who were Wang Jiawei and Nyima Gyaincain?
Some scholars underscore the commercial aspect of the Ming-Tibetan relationship, noting the Ming dynasty's shortage of horses for warfare and thus the importance of the horse trade with Tibet	What important trade did the Ming Dynasty have with Tibet?
At times the Tibetans also used armed resistance against Ming forays	What did the Tibetans use against Ming forays?
Until the Tibetan Empire's collapse in the 9th century, it was the Tang's major rival in dominating Inner Asia	In what century did the Tibetan Empire fall?
During the Five Dynasties and Ten Kingdoms period of China , while the fractured political realm of China saw no threat in a Tibet which was in just as much political disarray, there was little in the way of Sino-Tibetan relations	When did the Five Dynasties and Ten Kingdoms period of China take place?
In 1207, the Mongol ruler Genghis Khan (r	Which ruler took Western Xia under their control?
The Mongol prince Godan, a grandson of Genghis Khan, raided as far as Lhasa	Who was the Mongol prince?
Kublai also made Drogön Chögyal Phagpa the director of the government agency known as the Bureau of Buddhist and Tibetan Affairs and the ruling priest-king of Tibet, which comprised thirteen different states ruled by myriarchies	How many states were ruled by myriarchies?
Kublai Khan did not conquer the Song dynasty in South China until 1279, so Tibet was a component of the early Mongol Empire before it was combined into one of its descendant empires with the whole of China under the Yuan dynasty 	When did Kublai Khan conquer the song dynasty? 
In 1358, the Sakya viceregal regime installed by the Mongols in Tibet was overthrown in a rebellion by the Phagmodru myriarch Tai Situ Changchub Gyaltsen 	What year was the Sakya viceregal regime eradicated? 
Zhu Yuanzhang then established the Ming dynasty, ruling as the Hongwu Emperor (r	Who created the Ming Dynasty? 
Rolpe Dorje, 4th Karmapa Lama rejected the Hongwu Emperor's invitation, although he did send some disciples as envoys to the court in Nanjing	Who was the fourth Karmapa Lama?
However, the early Ming government enacted a law, later rescinded, which forbade Han Chinese to learn the tenets of Tibetan Buddhism	Who created a law that did not allow Han Chinese to learn the beliefs of Tibetan Buddhism?
"According to the official Twenty-Four Histories, the History of Ming compiled in 1739 by the subsequent Qing dynasty , the Ming dynasty established the ""É-Lì-Sī Army-Civilian Marshal Office"" in western Tibet and installed the ""Ü-Tsang Itinerant High Commandery"" and ""Amdo-Kham Itinerant High Commandery"" to administer Kham"	What years did the Qing dynasty rule?
The Ming court appointed three Princes of Dharma and five Princes , and granted many other titles, such as Grand State Tutors and State Tutors , to the important schools of Tibetan Buddhism, including the Karma Kagyu, Sakya, and Gelug	How many princes of Dharma were assigned by the Ming court?
Wylie, a former professor of the University of Washington, and Li Tieh-tseng argue that the reliability of the heavily censored History of Ming as a credible source on Sino-Tibetan relations is questionable, in the light of modern scholarship	Who had a large amount of contacts with china during Yuan?
"However, Wang Jiawei and Nyima Gyaincain state that these assertions by van Praag and Shakabpa are ""fallacies"""	Who did not agree with van Praag and Shakabpa?
Wang and Nyima argue that the Ming emperor sent edicts to Tibet twice in the second year of the Ming dynasty, and demonstrated that he viewed Tibet as a significant region to pacify by urging various Tibetan tribes to submit to the authority of the Ming court	Who believed that the Ming court had full sovereignty over Tibet?
"Journalist and author Thomas Laird, in his book The Story of Tibet: Conversations with the Dalai Lama, writes that Wang and Nyima present the government viewpoint of the People's Republic of China in their Historical Status of China's Tibet, and fail to realize that China was ""absorbed into a larger, non-Chinese political unit"" during the Mongol Yuan dynasty, which Wang and Nyima paint as a characteristic Chinese dynasty succeeded by the Ming"	Who wrote the book The Story of Tibet?
"It describes the Yuan dynasty as ""A Mongol dynasty of China that ruled from 1271 to 1368, and a division of the great empire conquered by the Mongols"	How did the The Columbia Encyclopedia describe the Yuan dynasty?
Kublai also abolished the imperial examinations of China's civil service legacy, which was not reinstated until Ayurbarwada Buyantu Khan's reign 	When did Ayurbarwada Buyantu Khan reign?
The official position of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the People's Republic of China is that the Ming implemented a policy of managing Tibet according to conventions and customs, granting titles and setting up administrative organs over Tibet	Who abolished the policy council?
Chen Qingying, Professor of History and Director of the History Studies Institute under the China Tibetology Research Center in Beijing, writes that the Ming court conferred new official positions on ex-Yuan Tibetan leaders of the Phachu Kargyu and granted them lower-ranking positions	Where is the China Tibetology Research Center located?
According to Tibetologist John Powers, Tibetan sources counter this narrative of titles granted by the Chinese to Tibetans with various titles which the Tibetans gave to the Chinese emperors and their officials	What was the name of the Tibetologist?
"Hans Bielenstein writes that as far back as the Han dynasty , the Han Chinese government ""maintained the fiction"" that the foreign officials administering the various ""Dependent States"" and oasis city-states of the Western Regions were true Han representatives due to the Han government's conferral of Chinese seals and seal cords to them"	What was the western regions composed of?
"Wang and Nyima state that after the official title ""Education Minister"" was granted to Tai Situ Changchub Gyaltsen by the Yuan court, this title appeared frequently with his name in various Tibetan texts, while his Tibetan title ""Degsi"" is seldom mentioned"	What title was given by the Yuan court to Tai Situ Changchub Gyaltsen ?
"However, Lok-Ham Chan, a professor of history at the University of Washington, writes that Changchub Gyaltsen's aims were to recreate the old Tibetan Kingdom that existed during the Chinese Tang dynasty, to build ""nationalist sentiment"" amongst Tibetans, and to ""remove all traces of Mongol suzerainty"	Who divided Central Tibet into districts? 
"According to the Records of the Founding Emperor, the Hongwu Emperor issued an edict granting the title ""Initiation State Master"" to Sagya Gyaincain, while the latter sent envoys to the Ming court to hand over his jade seal of authority along with tribute of colored silk and satin, statues of the Buddha, Buddhist scriptures, and sarira"	Who did the Hongwu Emperor grant the title Initiation State Master to?
Dreyfus writes that after the Phagmodrupa lost its centralizing power over Tibet in 1434, several attempts by other families to establish hegemonies failed over the next two centuries until 1642 with the 5th Dalai Lama's effective hegemony over Tibet	Who lost their power over Tibet?
The Ming dynasty granted titles to lamas of schools such as the Karmapa Kargyu, but the latter had previously declined Mongol invitations to receive titles	The Ming Dynasty granted what titles to lamas of schools?
This first request by the Ming was made in 1407, but the Ming court sent another embassy in 1413, this one led by the eunuch Hou Xian (候顯; fl	When did the Ming first request Tsongkhapa to come to court?
Dawa Norbu argues that modern Chinese Communist historians tend to be in favor of the view that the Ming simply reappointed old Yuan dynasty officials in Tibet and perpetuated their rule of Tibet in this manner	Who believed the Ming reappointed old Yuan dynasty officials in Tibet?
"Laird writes that the Ming appointed titles to eastern Tibetan princes, and that ""these alliances with eastern Tibetan principalities are the evidence China now produces for its assertion that the Ming ruled Tibet,"" despite the fact that the Ming did not send an army to replace the Mongols after they left Tibet"	Who did the Ming appoint titles to?
Shih-Shan Henry Tsai writes that the Yongle Emperor sent his eunuch Yang Sanbao into Tibet in 1413 to gain the allegiance of various Tibetan princes, while the Yongle Emperor paid a small fortune in return gifts for tributes in order to maintain the loyalty of neighboring vassal states such as Nepal and Tibet	What was the name of the eunuch?
Even though the Gelug exchanged gifts with and sent missions to the Ming court up until the 1430s, the Gelug was not mentioned in the Mingshi or the Mingshi Lu	Who did the Gelug exchange gifts with?
Wylie asserts that this type of censorship of the History of Ming distorts the true picture of the history of Sino-Tibetan relations, while the Ming court granted titles to various lamas regardless of their sectarian affiliations in an ongoing civil war in Tibet between competing Buddhist factions	Regardless of their sectarian affiliations, who did the Ming grant titles to?
""" Hugh Edward Richardson writes that the Ming dynasty exercised no authority over the succession of Tibetan ruling families, the Phagmodru , Rinpungpa , and Tsangpa "	What years did the Rinpungpa regime start and end?
"1398–1402), the Yongle Emperor was aided by the Buddhist monk Yao Guangxiao, and like his father, the Hongwu Emperor, the Yongle Emperor was ""well-disposed towards Buddhism"", claims Rossabi"	What year did the Jianwen Emperor reign start and end?
In order to seek out the Karmapa, the Yongle Emperor dispatched his eunuch Hou Xian and the Buddhist monk Zhi Guang (d	Who did the Yongle Emperor send to Tibet?
During his travels beginning in 1403, Deshin Shekpa was induced by further exhortations by the Ming court to visit Nanjing by April 10, 1407	When did Deshin Shekpa travels start?
At Linggu Temple in Nanjing, he presided over the religious ceremonies for the Yongle Emperor's deceased parents, while twenty-two days of his stay were marked by religious miracles that were recorded in five languages on a gigantic scroll that bore the Emperor's seal	At what temple did the ceremonies for the Yongle Emperor's deceased parents take place?
Tibetan sources say Deshin Shekpa also persuaded the Yongle Emperor not to impose his military might on Tibet as the Mongols had previously done	Who imposed on the military might on Tibet in the past? 
"Marsha Weidner states that Deshin Shekpa's miracles ""testified to the power of both the emperor and his guru and served as a legitimizing tool for the emperor's problematic succession to the throne,"" referring to the Yongle Emperor's conflict with the previous Jianwen Emperor"	Who did the Yongle Emperor have a conflict with?
With the example of the Ming court's relationship with the fifth Karmapa and other Tibetan leaders, Norbu states that Chinese Communist historians have failed to realize the significance of the religious aspect of the Ming-Tibetan relationship	According to Norbu who failed to realize the significance of the religious aspect of the Ming-Tibetan relationship?
1435–1449) addressed to the Karmapa in 1445, written after the latter's agent had brought holy relics to the Ming court	What years did the Zhengtong Emperor reign?
Despite this glowing message by the Emperor, Chan writes that a year later in 1446, the Ming court cut off all relations with the Karmapa hierarchs	Who did the Ming cut off all relations with?
Tsai writes that shortly after the visit by Deshin Shekpa, the Yongle Emperor ordered the construction of a road and of trading posts in the upper reaches of the Yangzi and Mekong Rivers in order to facilitate trade with Tibet in tea, horses, and salt	Why did Yongle order the construction?
Van Praag states that the Ming court established diplomatic delegations with Tibet merely to secure urgently needed horses	Why does Van Praag believe the Ming court set up a diplomatic delegation with Tibet?
"While the Ming dynasty traded horses with Tibet, it upheld a policy of outlawing border markets in the north, which Laird sees as an effort to punish the Mongols for their raids and to ""drive them from the frontiers of China"	Who did the Ming trade horses with?
However, there were instances in the 14th century when the Hongwu Emperor did use military force to quell unrest in Tibet	When did the Hongwu Emperor use military force in Tibet?
Discussions of strategy in the mid Ming dynasty focused primarily on recovery of the Ordos region, which the Mongols used as a rallying base to stage raids into Ming China	What did the mid Ming dynasty discussion focus mainly on?
"Historians Luciano Petech and Sato Hisashi argue that the Ming upheld a ""divide-and-rule"" policy towards a weak and politically fragmented Tibet after the Sakya regime had fallen"	What policy does Luciano Petech and Sato Hisashi claim the Ming held towards the Tibet?
The Rinpungpa leaders were relatives of the Phagmodrupa, yet their authority shifted over time from simple governors to rulers in their own right over large areas of Ü-Tsang	Who were the Rinpungpa leaders related to?
"1505–1521), who enjoyed the company of lamas at court despite protests from the censorate, had heard tales of a ""living Buddha"" which he desired to host at the Ming capital; this was none other than the Rinpung-supported Mikyö Dorje, 8th Karmapa Lama then occupying Lhasa"	When did the Zhengde Emperor rule? 
""" He writes that Chinese writers of the early 20th century were of the view that Tibet was not annexed by China until the Manchu Qing dynasty invasion during the 18th century"	Who said Tibet wasn't an integral part of of China?
"Josef Kolmaš, a sinologist, Tibetologist, and Professor of Oriental Studies at the Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic, writes that it was during the Qing dynasty ""that developments took place on the basis of which Tibet came to be considered an organic part of China, both practically and theoretically subject to the Chinese central government"	During Which dynasty does Josef Kolmaš claim Tibet was considered an organic part of China?
"According to him, the Tibetan lamas and Mongol khans upheld a ""mutual role of religious prelate and secular patron,"" respectively"	Who does P. Christiaan Klieger claim to have had a mutual role of religious prelate?
"China Daily, a CCP-controlled news organization since 1981, states in a 2008 article that although there were dynastic changes after Tibet was incorporated into the territory of Yuan dynasty's China in the 13th century, ""Tibet has remained under the jurisdiction of the central government of China"	When was Tibet included into the territory of Yuan dynasty's China?
1521–1567), the native Chinese ideology of Daoism was fully sponsored at the Ming court, while Tibetan Vajrayana and even Chinese Buddhism were ignored or suppressed	When did the Jiajing Emperor reign? 
With the death of Zhengde and ascension of Jiajing, the politics at court shifted in favor of the Neo-Confucian establishment which not only rejected the Portuguese embassy of Fernão Pires de Andrade (d	Who was Zhengde's successor? 
Meanwhile, the Tumed Mongols began moving into the Kokonor region , raiding the Ming Chinese frontier and even as far as the suburbs of Beijing under Altan Khan 	What region did the Tumed Mongols move into?
Laird writes that Altan Khan abolished the native Mongol practices of shamanism and blood sacrifice, while the Mongol princes and subjects were coerced by Altan to convert to Gelug Buddhism—or face execution if they persisted in their shamanistic ways	What practice did Altan Khan put to an end?
"Rawski writes that Altan Khan's conversion to the Gelug ""can be interpreted as an attempt to expand his authority in his conflict with his nominal superior, Tümen Khan"	Who was Altan Khan's nominal superior?
Sonam Gyatso, after being granted the grandiose title by Altan Khan, departed for Tibet	Who was given the grandiose title?
"Of the third Dalai Lama, China Daily states that the ""Ming dynasty showed him special favor by allowing him to pay tribute"	Who did the Ming dynasty showed favors to?
"Chen states that the fourth Dalai Lama Yonten Gyatso was granted the title ""Master of Vajradhara"" and an official seal by the Wanli Emperor in 1616"	What title was the fourth Dalai Lama granted? 
""" He adds that the Ming court's lack of concern for Tibet was one of the reasons why the Mongols pounced on the chance to reclaim their old vassal of Tibet and ""fill once more the political vacuum in that country"	Who's presence increased in Tibet?
"In 1565, the powerful Rinbung princes were overthrown by one of their own ministers, Karma Tseten who styled himself as the Tsangpa, ""the one of Tsang"", and established his base of power at Shigatse"	When were the Rinbung princes overthrown?
When an ally of the Ü-Tsang ruler threatened destruction of the Gelugpas again, the fifth Dalai Lama Lozang Gyatso pleaded for help from the Mongol prince Güshi Khan , leader of the Khoshut tribe of the Oirat Mongols, who was then on a pilgrimage to Lhasa	Who did the 5th Dalai Lama beg for help from?
Soon after the victory in Ü-Tsang, Güshi Khan organized a welcoming ceremony for Lozang Gyatso once he arrived a day's ride from Shigatse, presenting his conquest of Tibet as a gift to the Dalai Lama	Who did Güshi Khan organize a welcome ceremony for?
Meanwhile, the Chinese Ming dynasty fell to the rebellion of Li Zicheng in 1644, yet his short-lived Shun dynasty was crushed by the Manchu invasion and the Han Chinese general Wu Sangui 	Who did the the Chinese Ming dynasty fall to?
When the Dzungar Mongols attempted to spread their territory from what is now Xinjiang into Tibet, the Kangxi Emperor (r	Who tried to spread their territory into Tibet?
The iPod is a line of portable media players and multi-purpose pocket computers designed and marketed by Apple Inc	Which company produces the iPod?
Like other digital music players, iPods can serve as external data storage devices	In addition to playing music, what other function can the iPod perform?
Apple's iTunes software can be used to transfer music, photos, videos, games, contact information, e-mail settings, Web bookmarks, and calendars, to the devices supporting these features from computers using certain versions of Apple Macintosh and Microsoft Windows operating systems	What Apple program is used to communicate between computers and portable devices?
Before the release of iOS 5, the iPod branding was used for the media player included with the iPhone and iPad, a combination of the Music and Videos apps on the iPod Touch	Prior to iOS 5, how many apps were required to play music and videos on iPhone and iPad?
The sixth generation iPod Touch includes a wide variety of spec improvements such as the upgraded A8 processor and higher-quality screen	What processor model is used in the iPod Touch?
Though the iPod was released in 2001, its price and Mac-only compatibility caused sales to be relatively slow until 2004	In what year was the iPod first introduced?
Apple contracted another company, Pixo, to help design and implement the user interface under the direct supervision of Steve Jobs	Which company worked with Apple in creating the user interface for the iPod?
In 2006 Apple presented a special edition for iPod 5G of Irish rock band U2	In what year was a special edition of the iPod produced?
"Kane Kramer applied for a UK patent for his design of a ""plastic music box"" in 1981, which he called the IXI"	Who previously applied for a patent for an iPod-like device?
The name iPod was proposed by Vinnie Chieco, a freelance copywriter, who was called by Apple to figure out how to introduce the new player to the public	Who came up with the name for Apple's portable mp3 player?
In mid-2015, several new color schemes for all of the current iPod models were spotted in the latest version of iTunes, 12	When were images of new iPod colors leaked?
The third-generation iPod had a weak bass response, as shown in audio tests	What audio deficiency was found in the 3rd gen iPods?
This would happen for EQ settings like R&B, Rock, Acoustic, and Bass Booster, because the equalizer amplified the digital audio level beyond the software's limit, causing distortion on bass instruments	What acoustic element could be distorted by different audio settings in iPods prior to 2007?
From the fifth-generation iPod on, Apple introduced a user-configurable volume limit in response to concerns about hearing loss	What type of sensory issue was a concern prior to the release of 5th gen iPods?
Originally, a FireWire connection to the host computer was used to update songs or recharge the battery	What was the first type of connection used by the iPod to charge and transfer files?
The third generation began including a 30-pin dock connector, allowing for FireWire or USB connectivity	In which generation did iPod start providing compatibility with USB?
Apple sells a few accessories, such as the now-discontinued iPod Hi-Fi, but most are manufactured by third parties such as Belkin and Griffin	Which iPod accessory was made by Apple but is no longer produced?
Apple introduced a new 8-pin dock connector, named Lightning, on September 12, 2012 with their announcement of the iPhone 5, the fifth generation iPod Touch, and the seventh generation iPod Nano, which all feature it	What new connector did Apple unveil on September 12, 2012?
8	How many pins did the Lightning connector have?
A large number are made by third party companies, although many, such as the iPod Hi-Fi, are made by Apple	What is the name of an Apple-produced iPod accessory?
BMW released the first iPod automobile interface, allowing drivers of newer BMW vehicles to control an iPod using either the built-in steering wheel controls or the radio head-unit buttons	What company was first to create a means of connecting the iPod to an automobile?
Some independent stereo manufacturers including JVC, Pioneer, Kenwood, Alpine, Sony, and Harman Kardon also have iPod-specific integration solutions	What companies have developed iPod interfacing for their stereo systems?
Beginning in mid-2007, four major airlines, United, Continental, Delta, and Emirates, reached agreements to install iPod seat connections	In 2007, which airlines made deals to include iPod connections on their planes?
The iPod line can play several audio file formats including MP3, AAC/M4A, Protected AAC, AIFF, WAV, Audible audiobook, and Apple Lossless	What is the name of an audio format developed by Apple?
During installation, an iPod is associated with one host computer	How many hosts are recognized by an iPod the first time they're used?
All iPods have five buttons and the later generations have the buttons integrated into the click wheel – an innovation that gives an uncluttered, minimalist interface	How many buttons do most iPods use?
The iTunes Store is an online media store run by Apple and accessed through iTunes	When was the Apple iTunes Store launched?
At the time the store was introduced, purchased audio files used the AAC format with added encryption, based on the FairPlay DRM system	When the iTunes store was launched, what type of file format was used?
Example stores include Napster and MSN Music	What are two stores which sell files with DRM not compatible with iPods?
Universal Music Group decided not to renew their contract with the iTunes Store on July 3, 2007	What company ended its deal with Apple's music store in July of 2007?
"Apple debuted the iTunes Wi-Fi Music Store on September 5, 2007, in its Media Event entitled ""The Beat Goes On"	On what date was the iTunes Wi-Fi Music Store launched?
Video games are playable on various versions of iPods	On what devices can video games be used?
In September 2006, the iTunes Store began to offer additional games for purchase with the launch of iTunes 7, compatible with the fifth generation iPod with iPod software 1	In what year did the iTunes store begin allowing users to buy video games?
With third parties like Namco, Square Enix, Electronic Arts, Sega, and Hudson Soft all making games for the iPod, Apple's MP3 player has taken steps towards entering the video game handheld console market	What are the names of companies producing video games for Apple's MP3 player?
Apple has not publicly released a software development kit for iPod-specific development	What does SDK stand for?
Usually iTunes is used to transfer media to an iPod, though several alternative third-party applications are available on a number of different platforms	What kind program is commonly used to move files between iTunes and an iPod?
iTunes 7 and above can transfer purchased media of the iTunes Store from an iPod to a computer, provided that computer containing the DRM protected media is authorized to play it	What kind of security determines if files moved to a computer can be played?
Media files are stored on an iPod in a hidden folder, along with a proprietary database file	In what kind of folder are files located in the iPod?
"In 2005, Apple faced two lawsuits claiming patent infringement by the iPod line and its associated technologies: Advanced Audio Devices claimed the iPod line breached its patent on a ""music jukebox"", while a Hong Kong-based IP portfolio company called Pat-rights filed a suit claiming that Apple's FairPlay technology breached a patent issued to inventor Ho Keung Tse"	In what year did Apple face multiple intellectual property lawsuits?
"Apple's application to the United States Patent and Trademark Office for a patent on ""rotational user inputs"", as used on the iPod interface, received a third ""non-final rejection"" in August 2005"	What interface component did Apple attempt to patent in 2005?
On August 24, 2006, Apple and Creative announced a broad settlement to end their legal disputes	When did Creative and Apple come to an agreement over their intellectual property issues?
Since October 2004, the iPod line has dominated digital music player sales in the United States, with over 90% of the market for hard drive-based players and over 70% of the market for all types of players	What share of the US digital music player market does iPod hold?
On January 8, 2004, Hewlett-Packard announced that they would sell HP-branded iPods under a license agreement from Apple	When did HP unveil their own edition of the iPod?
On April 9, 2007, it was announced that Apple had sold its one-hundred millionth iPod, making it the biggest selling digital music player of all time	How many iPods did Apple reveal it sold in April of 2007?
On January 22, 2008, Apple reported the best quarter revenue and earnings in Apple's history so far	When did Apple reveal it had achieved its highest quarterly earnings to date?
"The continual decline of iPod sales since 2009 has not been a surprising trend for the Apple corporation, as Apple CFO Peter Oppenheimer explained in June 2009: ""We expect our traditional MP3 players to decline over time as we cannibalize ourselves with the iPod Touch and the iPhone"	Who was Chief Financial Officer of Apple in July of 2009?
iPods have won several awards ranging from engineering excellence, to most innovative audio product, to fourth best computer product of 2006	What rank did iPod achieve among various computer products in 2006?
Besides earning a reputation as a respected entertainment device, the iPod has also been accepted as a business device	Aside from recreational use, in what other arena have iPods found use?
Duke University provided iPods to all incoming freshmen in the fall of 2004, and the iPod program continues today with modifications	What University gave an iPod to first year students in 2004?
The iPod's popularization of digital music storage allows users to abandon listening to entire albums and instead be able to choose specific singles which hastened the end of the Album Era in popular music	What period of music did the iPod help bring to a close?
For example, the fifth generation 30 GB iPod is advertised as having up to 14 hours of music playback	How long were 5th generation iPods marketed as being able to function before needing to be charged?
iPod batteries are not designed to be removed or replaced by the user, although some users have been able to open the case themselves, usually following instructions from third-party vendors of iPod replacement batteries	Whose directions can be followed to interact with iPod batteries?
Apple announced a battery replacement program on November 14, 2003, a week before a high publicity stunt and website by the Neistat Brothers	What did Apple launch on November 14, 2003?
This is due to a flawed battery used by Apple from a single battery manufacturer	What part of the iPod Nano was the cause of the overheating issue?
iPods have been criticized for alleged short life-span and fragile hard drives	What are two subjects of criticism of iPods?
On June 11, 2006, the British tabloid The Mail on Sunday reported that iPods are mainly manufactured by workers who earn no more than US$50 per month and work 15-hour shifts	What publication revealed information about the working conditions of iPod labor?
Apple hired a workplace standards auditing company, Verité, and joined the Electronic Industry Code of Conduct Implementation Group to oversee the measures	Who did Apple partner with to monitor its labor policies?
In 2010, a number of workers committed suicide at a Foxconn operations in China	In what year did Chinese Foxconn emplyees kill themselves?
innovation can create more jobs overseas than domestically	What attribute of the United States could be thought to lead more international and less domestic employment opportunities?
 If an iPod is formatted on a Mac OS computer, it uses the HFS+ file system format, which allows it to serve as a boot disk for a Mac computer	To work as a boot disk for a Mac, what file system must an iPod be formatted with?
) is an action-adventure game developed and published by Nintendo for the GameCube and Wii home video game consoles	What category of game is Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess?
The story focuses on series protagonist Link, who tries to prevent Hyrule from being engulfed by a corrupted parallel dimension known as the Twilight Realm	Who is the main character of the story?
It received several Game of the Year awards, and was the most critically acclaimed game of 2006	What accolade did Twilight Princess receive after its release?
The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess is an action-adventure game focused on combat, exploration, and item collection	What are the three main activities in The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess?
The context-sensitive button mechanic allows one button to serve a variety of functions, such as talking, opening doors, and pushing, pulling, and throwing objects	Many different types of interaction can be controlled by how many buttons?
The Wii version of the game makes use of the motion sensors and built-in speaker of the Wii Remote	Where is the speaker located on the Wii console?
The game features nine dungeons—large, contained areas where Link battles enemies, collects items, and solves puzzles	How many dungeon instances are provided in Twilight Princess?
"However, ""Wolf Link"" gains several key advantages in return—he moves faster than he does as a human and digs holes to create new passages and uncover buried items, and has improved senses, including the ability to follow scent trails"	What form does Link take in the Twilight Realm?
The artificial intelligence of enemies in Twilight Princess is more advanced than that of enemies in The Wind Waker	What does AI stand for?
His emotions and responses are largely indicated visually by nods and facial expressions	Through what can Link's reaction and mood can be discerned?
Twilight Princess takes place several centuries after Ocarina of Time and Majora's Mask, and begins with a youth named Link who is working as a ranch hand in Ordon Village	What is Link's job at the start of Twilight Princess?
During this time, Link also helps Midna find the Fused Shadows, fragments of a relic containing powerful dark magic	What does Link assist Midna in collection?
After gaining the Master Sword, Link is cleansed of the magic that kept him in wolf form, obtaining the Shadow Crystal	What does Link obtain that gives him control over his transformations?
However, as Hyrule Castle collapses, it is revealed that Ganondorf was victorious as he crushes Midna's helmet	What possession of Midna does Ganondorf destroy?
In 2003, Nintendo announced that a new The Legend of Zelda game was in the works for the GameCube by the same team that had created the cel-shaded The Wind Waker	In what year did Nintendo reveal the start of development on what would become Twilight Princess?
In four months, Aonuma's team managed to present realistic horseback riding, which Nintendo later revealed to the public with a trailer at Electronic Entertainment Expo 2004	How long did it take to implement riding horses in a believable manner?
It was suggested that Link transform into a wolf, much like he metamorphoses into a rabbit in the Dark World of A Link to the Past	What does Link morph into in A Link to the Past?
His team began work developing a pointing-based interface for the bow and arrow, and Aonuma found that aiming directly at the screen gave the game a new feel, just like the DS control scheme for Phantom Hourglass	What kind of interface was used for in-game archery?
Transferring GameCube development to the Wii was relatively simple, since the Wii was being created to be compatible with the GameCube	What console boasted compatibility with the Wii?
A prototype was created that used a swinging gesture to control the sword from a first-person viewpoint, but was unable to show the variety of Link's movements	What kind of movement interfaced with the sword in Twilight Princess?
Nintendo staff members reported that demo users complained about the difficulty of the control scheme	What did early users find hard to use about the game?
The game's score was composed by Toru Minegishi and Asuka Ohta, with series regular Koji Kondo serving as the sound supervisor	Who wrote the music for Twilight Princess?
Media requests at the trade show prompted Kondo to consider using orchestral music for the other tracks in the game as well, a notion reinforced by his preference for live instruments	What kind of instruments are favored by Kondo?
"Following the discovery of a buffer overflow vulnerability in the Wii version of Twilight Princess, an exploit known as the ""Twilight Hack"" was developed, allowing the execution of custom code from a Secure Digital card on the console"	What kind of error was found in Twilight Princess for Wii?
A high-definition remaster of the game, The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess HD, is being developed by Tantalus Media for the Wii U	Which company is responsible for the HD version of Twilight Princess?
"Special bundles of the game contain a Wolf Link Amiibo figurine, which unlocks a Wii U-exclusive dungeon called the ""Cave of Shadows"" and can carry data over to the upcoming 2016 Zelda game"	What special item is included with certain versions of Twilight Princess HD?
A CD containing 20 musical selections from the game was available as a GameStop preorder bonus in the United States; it is included in all bundles in Japan, Europe, and Australia	What company included the soundtrack as a reward for ordering the game prior to release?
It received perfect scores from major publications such as 1UP	What kind of scores did Twilight Princess receive from many video game review sources?
Both IGN and GameSpy pointed out the existence of blurry textures and low-resolution characters	Which publications reported some issues with the graphics of Twilight Princess?
Twilight Princess received the awards for Best Artistic Design, Best Original Score, and Best Use of Sound from IGN for its GameCube version	The version of Twilight Princess fo which console won three IGN awards?
In the PAL region, which covers most of Africa, Asia, Europe, and Oceania, Twilight Princess is the best-selling entry in the Zelda series	What is the name of the area which includes most countries not located in North, Central or South America?
A Japan-exclusive manga series based on Twilight Princess, penned and illustrated by Akira Himekawa, was first released on February 8, 2016	Who wrote and provided art for a Twilight Princess comic book series?
Spectre is the twenty-fourth James Bond film produced by Eon Productions	Which company made Spectre?
The story sees Bond pitted against the global criminal organisation Spectre, marking the group's first appearance in an Eon Productions film since 1971's Diamonds Are Forever, and tying Craig's series of films together with an overarching storyline	What group is the enemy of the protagonist?
Spectre was released on 26 October 2015 in the United Kingdom on the same night as the world premiere at the Royal Albert Hall in London, followed by a worldwide release	On what date was Spectre first shown in the UK?
Following Garreth Mallory's promotion to M, on a mission in Mexico City unofficially ordered by a posthumous message from the previous M, 007 James Bond kills three men plotting a terrorist bombing during the Day of the Dead and gives chase to Marco Sciarra, an assassin who survived the attack	On what holiday do insurgents plan to detonate a bomb?
M	Who removed James Bond from active service?
Bond disobeys M's order and travels to Rome to attend Sciarra's funeral	Where does Bond go after his suspension?
Bond travels to Austria to find White, who is dying of thallium poisoning	What is White suffering from when Bond finds him?
They travel by train to the nearest station, but are once again confronted by Hinx; they engage in a fight throughout the train in which Mr Hinx is eventually thrown off the train by Bond with Swann's assistance	What method of transportation is used to get to Oberhauser's base?
Meanwhile, Bond is taken to the old MI6 building, which is scheduled for demolition, and frees himself	Where is Bond brought after he is kidnapped?
"The ownership of the Spectre organisation—originally stylised ""SPECTRE"" as an acronym of SPecial Executive for Counter-intelligence, Terrorism, Revenge and Extortion—and its characters, had been at the centre of long-standing litigation starting in 1961 between Ian Fleming and Kevin McClory over the film rights to the novel Thunderball"	What did SPECTRE originally stand for?
In November 2013 MGM and the McClory estate formally settled the issue with Danjaq, LLC—sister company of Eon Productions—with MGM acquiring the full copyright film rights to the concept of Spectre and all of the characters associated with it	Who ended up with ownership of Spectre?
In November 2014, Sony Pictures Entertainment was targeted by hackers who released details of confidential e-mails between Sony executives regarding several high-profile film projects	What company was targeted by leaks of company information?
Despite being an original story, Spectre draws on Ian Fleming's source material, most notably in the character of Franz Oberhauser, played by Christoph Waltz	Which actor portrayed Franz Oberhauser?
"Further references to Fleming's material can be found throughout the film; an MI6 safehouse is called ""Hildebrand Rarities and Antiques"", a reference to the short story ""The Hildebrand Rarity"" from the For Your Eyes Only short story collection"	What is the name of a location in Spectre which draws its inspiration from an Ian Fleming short story?
The main cast was revealed in December 2014 at the 007 Stage at Pinewood Studios	When were the actors in Spectre announced?
Christoph Waltz was cast in the role of Franz Oberhauser, though he refused to comment on the nature of the part	Who did Christoph Waltz portray in Spectre?
In February 2015 over fifteen hundred extras were hired for the pre-title sequence set in Mexico, though they were duplicated in the film, giving the effect of around ten thousand extras	How many actual people were used for the opening sequence of Spectre?
In directing Skyfall and Spectre, Mendes became the first director to oversee two consecutive Bond films since John Glen directed The Living Daylights and Licence to Kill in 1987 and 1989	Who was the last person to direct two James Bond movies in a row before Mendes?
Mendes also confirmed several filming locations, including London, Mexico City and Rome	What were three sites used for filming Spectre?
Filming started in Austria in December 2014, with production taking in the area around Sölden—including the Ötztal Glacier Road, Rettenbach glacier and the adjacent ski resort and cable car station—and Obertilliach and Lake Altaussee, before concluding in February 2015	When did Spectre begin production in Austria?
Filming temporarily returned to England to shoot scenes at Blenheim Palace in Oxfordshire, which stood in for a location in Rome, before moving on to the city itself for a five-week shoot across the city, with locations including the Ponte Sisto bridge and the Roman Forum	What are two landmarks in Rome used in filming Spectre?
With filming completed in Rome, production moved to Mexico City in late March to shoot the film's opening sequence, with scenes to include the Day of the Dead festival filmed in and around the Zócalo and the Centro Histórico district	Where did Spectre filming take place after Rome?
Following filming in Mexico, and during a scheduled break, Craig was flown to New York to undergo minor surgery to fix his knee injury	Where did Craig go to deal with his injury?
Stunt scenes involving Craig and Seydoux on a speedboat as well as a low flying helicopter near Westminster Bridge were shot at night, with filming temporarily closing both Westminster and Lambeth Bridges	Which bridges were shut down because of filming?
After wrapping up in England, production travelled to Morocco in June, with filming taking place in Oujda, Tangier and Erfoud, after preliminary work was completed by the production's second unit	Which three locations in Morocco were used in filming?
"Whilst filming in Mexico City, speculation in the media claimed that the script had been altered to accommodate the demands of Mexican authorities—reportedly influencing details of the scene and characters, casting choices, and modifying the script in order to portray the country in a ""positive light""—in order to secure tax concessions and financial support worth up to $20 million for the film"	How much money were possible changes to the Mexico City section of the film rumored to have saved the production?
Thomas Newman returned as Spectre's composer	Who wrote the music for Spectre?
"In September 2015 it was announced that Sam Smith and regular collaborator Jimmy Napes had written the film's title theme, ""Writing's on the Wall"", with Smith performing it for the film"	What was the name of the song played during the opening credits?
The song was released as a digital download on 25 September 2015	When was the main theme of Spectre made available in digital format?
During the December 2014 press conference announcing the start of filming, Aston Martin and Eon unveiled the new DB10 as the official car for the film	Which companies revealed Spectre's official car?
To promote the film, production continued the trend established during Skyfall's production of releasing still images of clapperboards and video blogs on Eon's official social media accounts	Images of what item were posted by Eon while the movie was being made?
On 13 March 2015, several members of the cast and crew, including Craig, Whishaw, Wilson and Mendes, as well as previous James Bond actor, Sir Roger Moore, appeared in a sketch written by David Walliams and the Dawson Brothers for Comic Relief's Red Nose Day on BBC One	What comedy production did Spectre actors appear in?
Spectre had its world premiere in London on 26 October 2015 at the Royal Albert Hall, the same day as its general release in the United Kingdom and Republic of Ireland	Where was the first showing of Spectre held?
1 million of the takings have been generated from the UK market and $199	$138.1 million has been generated from the French what?
8 million), breaking the UK record for highest first-week opening, set by Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban's £23	Which movie previously had the highest earnings for its first seven days?
Despite the 13 November Paris attacks, which led to numerous theaters being closed down, the film opened with $14	Terrorist activity in what French city impacted Spectre's earnings?
1 million for Spectre at 374 screens, premium large format made $8 million from 429 cinemas, reaping 11% of the film's opening, which means that Spectre earned $17	How many Imax screens showed Spectre on its opening weekend in the US and Canada?
In China, it opened on 12 November and earned $15 million on its opening day, which is the second biggest 2D single day gross for a Hollywood film behind the $18	On what day and month was Spectre released to the Chinese market?
""" On Metacritic, the film has a rating of 60 out of 100, based on 48 critics, indicating ""mixed or average reviews"""	What was Metacritics score for Spectre?
"In another five star review, The Daily Telegraph's Robbie Collin described Spectre as ""a swaggering show of confidence'"", lauding it as ""a feat of pure cinematic necromancy"	Who gave Spectre a perfect rating in The Daily Telegraph?
"Forbes' Scott Mendelson also heavily criticised the film, denouncing Spectre as ""the worst 007 movie in 30 years"""	Which journalist considered Spectre the worst James Bond movie in three decades?
"Christopher Orr, writing in The Atlantic, also criticised the film, saying that Spectre ""backslides on virtually every """	Which Atlantic writer gave a negative review of Spectre?
In India, it was reported that the Indian Central Board of Film Certification censored kissing scenes featuring Monica Bellucci, Daniel Craig, and Léa Seydoux	Whic organization is responsible for filtering movie content in India?
Christoph Waltz has signed on for two more films in the series, but his return depends on whether or not Craig will again portray Bond	Christoph Waltz's appearance in future Bond movies is contingent on the appearance of which other actor?
The 2008 Sichuan earthquake or the Great Sichuan earthquake, measured at 8	In what year did the earthquake in Sichuan occur?
The earthquake was also felt in nearby countries and as far away as both Beijing and Shanghai—1,500 km and 1,700 km away—where office buildings swayed with the tremor	Which far away cities in other countries could feel the earthquake?
Official figures stated that 69,197 were confirmed dead, including 68,636 in Sichuan province, and 374,176 injured, with 18,222 listed as missing	How many people were confirmed dead?
The epicenter was in Wenchuan County, Ngawa Tibetan and Qiang Autonomous Prefecture, 80 km west/northwest of the provincial capital of Chengdu, with its main tremor occurring at 14:28:01	Where was the epicenter?
According to a study by the China Earthquake Administration , the earthquake occurred along the Longmenshan fault, a thrust structure along the border of the Indo-Australian Plate and Eurasian Plate	On what fault did the earthquake occur?
Malaysia-based Yazhou Zhoukan conducted an interview with former researcher at the China Seismological Bureau Geng Qingguo , in which Geng claimed that a confidential written report was sent to the State Seismological Bureau on April 30, 2008, warning about the possible occurrence of a significant earthquake in Ngawa Prefecture region of Sichuan around May 8, with a range of 10 days before or after the quake	When was the confidential written report sent to the State Seismological Bureau?
In a United States Geological Survey study, preliminary rupture models of the earthquake indicated displacement of up to 9 meters along a fault approximately 240 km long by 20 km deep	How large was the displacement?
""" His data also showed that the earthquake lasted about two minutes and released 30 times the energy of the Great Hanshin earthquake of 1995 in Japan, which killed over 6,000 people"	How many people were killed in the Hanshin earthquake?
Between 64 and 104 major aftershocks, ranging in magnitude from 4	How many aftershocks were there?
1 earthquake on August 30, 2008 in southern Sichuan was not part of this series because it was caused by a different fault	When did this earthquake occur?
"The map of earthquake intensity published by CEA after surveying 500,000 km2 of the affected area shows a maximum liedu of XI on the China Seismic Intensity Scale , described as ""very destructive"" on the European Macroseismic Scale from which CSIS drew reference"	Who published the map of the earthquakes intensity?
The Longmen Shan Fault System is situated in the eastern border of the Tibetan Plateau and contains several faults	Where is the Longmenshan Fault located?
Office buildings in Shanghai's financial district, including the Jin Mao Tower and the Hong Kong New World Tower, were evacuated	Where were office buildings evacuated?
Reporters in Chengdu said they saw cracks on walls of some residential buildings in the downtown areas, but no buildings collapsed	Where did the reporters say they saw cracks on walls of some buildings?
All of the highways into Wenchuan, and others throughout the province, were damaged, resulting in delayed arrival of the rescue troops	How many highways leading into Wenchuan were damaged?
Both the Shanghai Stock Exchange and the Shenzhen Stock Exchange suspended trading of companies based in southwestern China	Where were the exchanges based?
Immediately after the earthquake event, mobile and terrestrial telecommunications were cut to the affected and surrounding area, with all internet capabilities cut to the Sichuan area too	What kinds of telecommunications were cut?
China Mobile had more than 2,300 base stations suspended due to power disruption or severe telecommunication traffic congestion	How many base stations did China Mobile have suspended?
Initially, officials were unable to contact the Wolong National Nature Reserve, home to around 280 giant pandas	What place could officials not contact?
2	How many pandas were injured?
The Zipingpu Hydropower Plant located 20 km east of the epicenter was damaged	What power plant was damaged?
According to Chinese state officials, the quake caused 69,180 known deaths including 68,636 in Sichuan province; 18,498 people are listed as missing, and 374,176 injured, but these figures may further increase as more reports come in	How many deaths were reported?
One rescue team reported only 2,300 survivors from the town of Yingxiu in Wenchuan County, out of a total population of about 9,000	How many survivors were there from Yingxiu?
Health care is poor in inland areas such as Sichuan, highlighting the widening gap between prosperous urban dwellers and struggling rural people	What is poor about inland areas such as Sichuan?
In terms of school casualties, thousands of school children died due to shoddy construction	How many school children died due to shoddy construction?
Details of school casualties had been under non-governmental investigation since December 2008 by volunteers including artist and architect Ai Weiwei, who had been constantly posting updates on his blog since March 2009	When did an investigation occur under school casualties?
The earthquake left at least 5 million people without housing, although the number could be as high as 11 million	How many people were left without housing?
Reginald DesRoches, a professor of civil and environmental engineering at Georgia Tech, pointed out that the massive damage of properties and houses in the earthquake area was because China did not create an adequate seismic design code until after the devastating 1976 Tangshan earthquake	Who was a professor of civil and environmental engineering at Georgia Tech?
In the days following the disaster, an international reconnaissance team of engineers was dispatched to the region to make a detailed preliminary survey of damaged buildings	What happened days following the disaster?
News reports indicate that the poorer, rural villages were hardest hit	What areas were the hardest hit?
Even with the five largest cities in Sichuan suffering only minor damage from the quake, some estimates of the economic loss run higher than US$75 billion, making the earthquake one of the costliest natural disasters in Chinese history	What is an estimate of the economic loss from the quake?
7 Mw in Ningqiang County, Shaanxi, led to the collapse of more than 420,000 homes and injured 63 people	How many buildings collapsed as a result of the May 27th aftershocks?
Executive vice governor Wei Hong confirmed on November 21, 2008 that more than 90,000 people in total were dead or missing in the earthquake	Who was the executive vice governor?
Just 90 minutes after the earthquake, Premier Wen Jiabao, who has an academic background in geomechanics, flew to the earthquake area to oversee the rescue work	Who flew to the earthquake area 90 minutes after it hit?
"The National Disaster Relief Commission initiated a ""Level II emergency contingency plan"", which covers the most serious class of natural disasters"	What did the National Disaster Relief Commission initiate?
An earthquake emergency relief team of 184 people left Beijing from Nanyuan Airport late May 12 in two military transport planes to travel to Wenchuan County	How many people were in the earthquake emergency relief team?
In the China Digital Times an article reports a close analysis by an alleged Chinese construction engineer known online as “Book Blade” , who stated:	What did the China Digital Times report?
On Children's Day, June 1, 2008, many parents went to the rubble of schools to mourn for their children	What was June 1, 2008 called?
China National Petroleum Corp and Sinopec donated 10 million yuan each to the disaster area	How much did China National Petroleum Corp and Sinopec donate?
On May 16 China stated it had also received $457 million in donated money and goods for rescue efforts so far, including $83 million from 19 countries and four international organizations	How much did China receive in donated money and goods?
In 2008, State Council established a counterpart support plan 	What did the State Council establish in 2008?
The chief engineer of the Sichuan Geology and Mineral Bureau said that the sudden shift of a huge quantity of water into the region could have relaxed the tension between the two sides of the fault, allowing them to move apart, and could have increased the direct pressure on it, causing a violent rupture	What was concluded about the construction?
The earthquake also provided opportunities for researchers to retrofit data in order to model future earthquake predictions	What did the earthquake allow?
In a press conference held by the State Council Information Office the day after the earthquake, geologist Zhang Xiaodong, deputy director of CEA's Seismic Monitoring Network Center, restated that earthquake prediction was a global issue, in the sense that no proven methods exist, and that no prediction notification was received before the earthquake	What was stated in the press conference?
In 2002, Chinese geologist Chen Xuezhong published a Seismic Risk Analysis study in which he came to the conclusion that beginning with 2003, attention should be paid to the possibility of an earthquake with a magnitude of over 7	When was a Seismic Risk Analysis published?
The earthquake was the worst to strike the Sichuan area in over 30 years	How long had it been since an earthquake of similar magnitude?
Many rescue teams, including that of the Taipei Fire Department from Taiwan, were reported ready to join the rescue effort in Sichuan as early as Wednesday	What department was ready to join the rescue effort by Wednesday?
Persistent heavy rain and landslides in Wenchuan County and the nearby area badly affected rescue efforts	What natural disasters were occurring in Wenchuan County?
By May 15, Premier Wen Jiabao ordered the deployment of an additional 90 helicopters, of which 60 were to be provided by the PLAAF, and 30 were to be provided by the civil aviation industry, bringing the total of number of aircraft deployed in relief operations by the air force, army, and civil aviation to over 150, resulting in the largest non-combat airlifting operation in People's Liberation Army history	What did Premier Wen Jiabao order?
Beijing accepted the aid of the Tzu Chi Foundation from Taiwan late on May 13	What Foundation wanted to aid Beijing?
A direct chartered cargo flight was made by China Airlines from Taiwan Taoyuan International Airport to Chengdu Shuangliu International Airport sending some 100 tons of relief supplies donated by the Tzu Chi Foundation and the Red Cross Society of Taiwan to the affected areas	Who made a direct chartered cargo flight?
The United States shared some of its satellite images of the quake-stricken areas with Chinese authorities	What did the US share?
The Internet was extensively used for passing information to aid rescue and recovery efforts	What was extensively used to pass information to aid rescue and recovery efforts?
On May 12, 2009, China marked the first anniversary of the quake with a moment of silence as people across the nation remembered the dead	What was done for the anniversary?
People also donated blood, resulting in according to Xinhua long line-ups in most major Chinese cities	What was also donated?
The Red Cross Society of China flew 557 tents and 2,500 quilts valued at 788,000 yuan to Wenchuan County	How many tents were flown to the region?
The central government estimates that over 7,000 inadequately engineered schoolrooms collapsed in the earthquake	How many schoolrooms collapsed in the quake?
On the evening of May 18, CCTV-1 hosted a special four-hour program called The Giving of Love , hosted by regulars from the CCTV New Year's Gala and round-the-clock coverage anchor Bai Yansong	What did CCTV-1 host on the evening of May 18th?
Rescue efforts performed by the Chinese government were praised by western media, especially in comparison with Myanmar's blockage of foreign aid during Cyclone Nargis, as well as China's previous performance during the 1976 Tangshan earthquake	What did Myanmar block after Cyclone Nargis?
"9 earthquake and the many strong aftershocks, many rivers became blocked by large landslides, which resulted in the formation of ""quake lakes"" behind the blockages; these massive amounts of water were pooling up at a very high rate behind the natural landslide dams and it was feared that the blockages would eventually crumble under the weight of the ever-increasing water mass, potentially endangering the lives of millions of people living downstream"	What formed behind blockages?
The most precarious of these quake-lakes was the one located in the extremely difficult terrain at Mount Tangjia in Beichuan County, Sichuan, accessible only by foot or air; an Mi-26T heavy lift helicopter belonging to the China Flying Dragon Special Aviation Company was used to bring heavy earthmoving tractors to the affected location	Where was the most precarious quake lake located?
The State Council declared a three-day period of national mourning for the quake victims starting from May 19, 2008; the PRC's National Flag and Regional Flags of Hong Kong and Macau Special Administrative Regions flown at half mast	Who declared the mourning period?
The Ningbo Organizing Committee of the Beijing Olympic torch relay announced that the relay, scheduled to take place in Ningbo during national morning, would be suspended for the duration of the mourning period	What was suspended for the duration of the mourning period?
Many websites converted their home page to black and white; Sina	What colors did many websites convert their home pages to?
Ye Zhiping, the principal of Sangzao Middle School in Sangzao, one of the largest in An County, has been credited with proactive action that spared the lives of all 2,323 pupils in attendance when the earthquake happened	Who was the principal of Sangzao Middle School? 
However, Reuters reported in June that, to date, Chinese prosecutors have joined an official inquiry into ten collapsed schools during May's devastating earthquake to gain first-hand material of construction quality at the collapsed schools, launch preliminary inquiries and prepare for possible investigations into professional crime	Why were the schools inspected?
""" To limit protests, officials pushed parents to sign a document, which forbade them from holding protests, in exchange of money, but some who refused to sign were threatened"	What was given in exchange of signing the document?
"Besides parents, Liu Shaokun , a Sichuan school teacher, was detained on June 25, 2008 for ""disseminating rumors and destroying social order"" about the Sichuan earthquake"	Who was a Sichuan school teacher?
In January 2010, Hong Kong-based English newspaper The Standard reported that writer Tan Zuoren attempted to document shoddy construction that may have led to massive casualties in schools, was sentenced to in prison ostensibly for his writing an article in 2007 in support of the pro-democracy movement in 1989	When did the sentencing occur?
On May 14, UNICEF reported that China formally requested the support of the international community to respond to the needs of affected families	What did UNICEF report?
Houston Rockets center Yao Ming, one of the country's most popular sports icons, gave $214,000 and $71,000 to the Red Cross Society of China	How much did Yao Ming donate?
"Francis Marcus of the International Federation of the Red Cross praised the Chinese rescue effort as ""swift and very efficient"" in Beijing on Tuesday"	What did Francis Marcus say of the Chinese relief effort?
All Mainland Chinese television stations cancelled all regularly-scheduled programming, displayed their logo in grayscale, and replaced their cancelled programmes with live earthquake footage from CCTV-1 for multiple days after the quake	What did stations replace programming with?
Although the Chinese government was initially praised for its response to the quake , it then saw an erosion in confidence over the school construction scandal	What government blocked aid after Cyclone Nargis?
Thousands of parents around the province have accused local officials and builders of cutting corners in school construction, citing that after the quake other nearby buildings were little damaged	What did parents accuse builders of doing?
"The AP reported that ""The state-controlled media has largely ignored the issue, apparently under the propaganda bureau's instructions"	Who has ignored the school issue?
"com reported that the shoddily constructed buildings are commonly called ""tofu buildings"" because builders cut corners by replacing steel rods with thin iron wires for concrete re-inforcement; using inferior grade cement, if any at all; and using fewer bricks than they should"	Why are the buildings so shoddily built?
However questions still remain, as some of the corrupt government officials have still not been brought to justice, while the many families who lost their only child, are still seeking compensation and justice to what had happened	Who has not been brought to justice?
New York—often called New York City or the City of New York to distinguish it from the State of New York, of which it is a part—is the most populous city in the United States and the center of the New York metropolitan area, the premier gateway for legal immigration to the United States and one of the most populous urban agglomerations in the world	What city in the United States has the highest population?
Situated on one of the world's largest natural harbors, New York City consists of five boroughs, each of which is a separate county of New York State	How many boroughs comprise New York City?
New York City traces its roots to its 1624 founding as a trading post by colonists of the Dutch Republic and was named New Amsterdam in 1626	What was the trading post that preceded New York City called?
Many districts and landmarks in New York City have become well known, and the city received a record 56 million tourists in 2014, hosting three of the world's ten most visited tourist attractions in 2013	How many tourists visited New York in 2014?
Later on, the ice sheet would help split apart what are now Long Island and Staten Island	What island was once a part of Long Island?
In the precolonial era, the area of present-day New York City was inhabited by various bands of Algonquian tribes of Native Americans, including the Lenape, whose homeland, known as Lenapehoking, included Staten Island; the western portion of Long Island, including the area that would become Brooklyn and Queens; Manhattan; the Bronx; and the Lower Hudson Valley	What was the name of the Lenape homeland?
The first documented visit by a European was in 1524 by Giovanni da Verrazzano, a Florentine explorer in the service of the French crown, who sailed his ship La Dauphine into New York Harbor	In what year did the first European arrive in the New York area?
"A Spanish expedition led by captain Estêvão Gomes, a Portuguese sailing for Emperor Charles V, arrived in New York Harbor in January 1525 aboard the purpose-built caravel ""La Anunciada"" and charted the mouth of the Hudson River, which he named Rio de San Antonio"	In what year did a Spanish expedition visit New York Harbor?
In 1609, English explorer Henry Hudson re-discovered the region when he sailed his ship the Halve Maen into New York Harbor while searching for the Northwest Passage to the Orient for his employer, the Dutch East India Company	What was the name of the explorer who visited the area in 1609?
Born in Santo Domingo of Portuguese and African descent, he arrived in Manhattan during the winter of 1613–1614, trapping for pelts and trading with the local population as a representative of the Dutch	Where was Juan Rodriguez born?
A permanent European presence in New Netherland began in 1624 – making New York the 12th oldest continuously occupied European-established settlement in the continental United States – with the founding of a Dutch fur trading settlement on Governors Island	On what island did the Dutch set up a settlement to trade furs?
"The English promptly renamed the fledgling city ""New York"" after the Duke of York "	What did the English call New Amsterdam after its capture?
"On August 24, 1673, Dutch captain Anthonio Colve took over the colony of New York from England and rechristened it ""New Orange"" to honor the Prince of Orange, King William III"	What was the regnal name of the Prince of Orange?
At the end of the Second Anglo-Dutch War, the English gained New Amsterdam in North America in exchange for Dutch control of Run, an Indonesian island	After what war did the English receive New Amsterdam?
It also became a center of slavery, with 42% of households holding slaves by 1730, more than any other city other than Charleston, South Carolina	In 1730, what percentage of New York households were slave-holding?
The trial in Manhattan of John Peter Zenger in 1735 helped to establish the freedom of the press in North America	In what year was John Peter Zenger tried?
The Battle of Long Island, the largest battle of the American Revolutionary War, was fought in August 1776 entirely within the modern-day borough of Brooklyn	What was the biggest battle of the American Revolution?
The only attempt at a peaceful solution to the war took place at the Conference House on Staten Island between American delegates, including Benjamin Franklin, and British general Lord Howe on September 11, 1776	On what date did the peace conference on Staten Island occur?
In 1785, the assembly of the Congress of the Confederation made New York the national capital shortly after the war	In what year did New York become the United States capital?
Under New York State's gradual abolition act of 1799, children of slave mothers were born to be eventually liberated but were held in indentured servitude until their mid-to-late twenties	In what year did the state of New York pass a law to free the slaves?
The city adopted the Commissioners' Plan of 1811, which expanded the city street grid to encompass all of Manhattan	What plan of 1811 spread a grid of streets across Manhattan?
Public-minded members of the contemporaneous business elite lobbied for the establishment of Central Park, which in 1857 became the first landscaped park in an American city	What was the name of the first urban landscaped park in the United States?
The Great Irish Famine brought a large influx of Irish immigrants	What event brought many Irish immigrants to the United States?
In 1861, Mayor Fernando Wood called on the aldermen to declare independence from Albany and the United States after the South seceded, but his proposal was not acted on	Who was the mayor of New York City in 1861? 
In 1898, the modern City of New York was formed with the consolidation of Brooklyn , the County of New York , the County of Richmond, and the western portion of the County of Queens	In what year was the modern City of New York founded?
In 1904, the steamship General Slocum caught fire in the East River, killing 1,021 people on board	In what year did the General Slocum disaster occur?
New York's non-white population was 36,620 in 1890	How many non-white people lived in New York in 1890?
New York became the most populous urbanized area in the world in the early 1920s, overtaking London	In the early 1920s, what was the second most highly populated city in the world?
The United Nations Headquarters was completed in 1952, solidifying New York's global geopolitical influence, and the rise of abstract expressionism in the city precipitated New York's displacement of Paris as the center of the art world	When was construction finished on the United Nations Headquarters?
The Stonewall riots were a series of spontaneous, violent demonstrations by members of the gay community against a police raid that took place in the early morning hours of June 28, 1969, at the Stonewall Inn in the Greenwich Village neighborhood of Lower Manhattan	The Stonewall riots are named after what building?
New York's population reached all-time highs in the 2000 Census and then again in the 2010 Census	In what year did the population of New York first reach an all-time high in this period?
The city and surrounding area suffered the bulk of the economic damage and largest loss of human life in the aftermath of the September 11, 2001 attacks when 10 of the 19 terrorists associated with Al-Qaeda piloted American Airlines Flight 11 into the North Tower of the World Trade Center and United Airlines Flight 175 into the South Tower of the World Trade Center, and later destroyed them, killing 2,192 civilians, 343 firefighters, and 71 law enforcement officers who were in the towers and in the surrounding area	What was the name of the aircraft that crashed into the World Trade Center's North Tower on September 11, 2001?
The Occupy Wall Street protests in Zuccotti Park in the Financial District of Lower Manhattan began on September 17, 2011, receiving global attention and spawning the Occupy movement against social and economic inequality worldwide	On what date did the Occupy Wall Street protests commence?
"in 1955, commented, ""By hearkening back to New York's heart after 9/11, for a moment Trump transcended politics"	In what year was the National Review founded?
New York City is situated in the Northeastern United States, in southeastern New York State, approximately halfway between Washington, D	In what geographical region of the United States is New York City located?
state of New Jersey	The Hudson River serves as a dividing line between New York and what state?
The city's land has been altered substantially by human intervention, with considerable land reclamation along the waterfronts since Dutch colonial times; reclamation is most prominent in Lower Manhattan, with developments such as Battery Park City in the 1970s and 1980s	What Manhattan development is the product of land reclamation?
The highest point in the city is Todt Hill on Staten Island, which, at 409	What is the name of New York City's highest point?
New York has architecturally noteworthy buildings in a wide range of styles and from distinct time periods, from the saltbox style Pieter Claesen Wyckoff House in Brooklyn, the oldest section of which dates to 1656, to the modern One World Trade Center, the skyscraper at Ground Zero in Lower Manhattan and currently the most expensive new office tower in the world	What structure is an example of saltbox architecture?
As of 2011, New York City had 5,937 high-rise buildings, of which 550 completed structures were at least 330 feet high, both second in the world after Hong Kong, with over 50 completed skyscrapers taller than 656 feet 	How many high-rises were present in New York City in 2011?
The Art Deco style of the Chrysler Building and Empire State Building , with their tapered tops and steel spires, reflected the zoning requirements	In what year was the Empire State Building completed?
In neighborhoods such as Riverdale , Ditmas Park , and Douglaston , large single-family homes are common in various architectural styles such as Tudor Revival and Victorian	In what borough is the Riverdale neighborhood located?
Stone and brick became the city's building materials of choice after the construction of wood-frame houses was limited in the aftermath of the Great Fire of 1835	What event led to the decline in wooden construction in New York City?
"According to the United States Geological Survey, an updated analysis of seismic hazard in July 2014 revealed a ""slightly lower hazard for tall buildings"" in New York City than previously assessed"	When did the United States Geological Survey released its seismic hazard analysis?
If the boroughs were each independent cities, four of the boroughs would be among the ten most populous cities in the United States	How many of New York's boroughs would be counted among the United States' ten most populated cities if they were independent?
Under the Köppen climate classification, using the 0 °C coldest month isotherm, New York City itself experiences a humid subtropical climate and is thus the northernmost major city on the North American continent with this categorization	What is the name of New York City's climate using the Köppen climate classification?
Winters are cold and damp, and prevailing wind patterns that blow offshore minimize the moderating effects of the Atlantic Ocean; yet the Atlantic and the partial shielding from colder air by the Appalachians keep the city warmer in the winter than inland North American cities at similar or lesser latitudes such as Pittsburgh, Cincinnati, and Indianapolis	What mountains serve as a barrier to keep New York City comparatively warmer in the winter?
9 inches of precipitation annually, which is fairly spread throughout the year	In millimeters, how much precipitation does New York receive a year?
The City of New York has a complex park system, with various lands operated by the National Park Service, the New York State Office of Parks, Recreation and Historic Preservation, and the New York City Department of Parks and Recreation	What is the name of the New York City department that operates the park system?
cities, behind the park system of Minneapolis	What city was rated as having the best park system by The Trust for Public Land?
83 ha) in total, most of it surrounded by New York City, including the Jamaica Bay Wildlife Refuge in Brooklyn and Queens, over 9,000 acres of salt marsh, islands, and water, including most of Jamaica Bay	About how large is the Jamaica Bay Wildlife Refuge in acres?
The Statue of Liberty National Monument and Ellis Island Immigration Museum are managed by the National Park Service and are in both the states of New York and New Jersey	What body administers the Ellis Island Immigration Museum?
There are seven state parks within the confines of New York City, including Clay Pit Ponds State Park Preserve, a natural area which includes extensive riding trails, and Riverbank State Park, a 28-acre facility that rises 69 feet over the Hudson River	How many state parks exist in New York City?
New York City has over 28,000 acres of municipal parkland and 14 miles of public beaches	New York has approximately how many acres of parks?
New York City is home to Fort Hamilton, the U	What is the name of the military base in New York City?
New York City is the most-populous city in the United States, with an estimated record high of 8,491,079 residents as of 2014, incorporating more immigration into the city than outmigration since the 2010 United States Census	What was the population of New York City in 2014?
In 2014, the city had an estimated population density of 27,858 people per square mile , rendering it the most densely populated of all municipalities housing over 100,000 residents in the United States; however, several small cities in adjacent Hudson County, New Jersey are more dense overall, as per the 2000 Census	How many people live in a square mile of New York City?
The city's population in 2010 was 44% white (33	What percentage of the city's population is Caucasian?
3	By what percentage did the non-Hispanic white population decrease?
Throughout its history, the city has been a major port of entry for immigrants into the United States; more than 12 million European immigrants were received at Ellis Island between 1892 and 1924	How many immigrants arrived at Ellis Island from 1892 to 1924?
Approximately 37% of the city's population is foreign born	What percentage of the population was born outside the United States?
The New York City borough of Queens is home to the state's largest Asian American population and the largest Andean populations in the United States, and is also the most ethnically diverse urban area in the world	What New York borough contains the highest population of Asian-Americans?
1 million), Chicago , and Houston combined	What is the non-Hispanic white population of Houston?
The wider New York City metropolitan area, with over 20 million people, about 50% greater than the second-place Los Angeles metropolitan area in the United States, is also ethnically diverse	About how many people live in New York City's metropolitan area?
Ecuador, Colombia, Guyana, Peru, and Brazil were the top source countries from South America for legal immigrants to the New York City region in 2013; the Dominican Republic, Jamaica, Haiti, and Trinidad and Tobago in the Caribbean; Egypt, Ghana, and Nigeria from Africa; and El Salvador, Honduras, and Guatemala in Central America	What nation provided the most legal immigrants to New York City in the Caribbean?
The New York metropolitan area is home to a self-identifying gay and bisexual community estimated at 568,903 individuals, the largest in the United States and one of the world's largest	How many self-identified LGB people live in the New York metropolitan area?
Christianity , particularly Catholicism , was the most prevalently practiced religion in New York as of 2014, followed by Judaism, with approximately 1	What percentage of New Yorkers are Christians?
6 for Manhattan	What borough has a Gini Coefficient of 0.6?
The city is a major center for banking and finance, retailing, world trade, transportation, tourism, real estate, new media as well as traditional media, advertising, legal services, accountancy, insurance, theater, fashion, and the arts in the United States; while Silicon Alley, metonymous for New York's broad-spectrum high technology sphere, continues to expand	What is the common name for New York's high technology sector?
One out of ten private sector jobs in the city is with a foreign company	What fraction of New Yorkers in the private sector are employed by foreign companies?
450 Park Avenue was sold on July 2, 2007 for US$510 million, about $1,589 per square foot , breaking the barely month-old record for an American office building of $1,476 per square foot set in the June 2007 sale of 660 Madison Avenue	What was the price per square foot of 450 Park Avenue when it sold in July 2007?
"As of 2013, the global advertising agencies of Omnicom Group and Interpublic Group, both based in Manhattan, had combined annual revenues of approximately US$21 billion, reflecting New York City's role as the top global center for the advertising industry, which is metonymously referred to as ""Madison Avenue"""	What is the popular name of New York's advertising industry?
Food processing is a US$5 billion industry that employs more than 19,000 residents	How many New Yorkers work in the food processing field?
Chocolate is New York City's leading specialty-food export, with up to US$234 million worth of exports each year	What dollar amount of chocolate does New York export annually?
The city's securities industry, enumerating 163,400 jobs in August 2013, continues to form the largest segment of the city's financial sector and an important economic engine, accounting in 2012 for 5 percent of the city's private sector jobs, 8	As of 2013, how many people worked for a securities business in New York?
5	What percentage of New York private sector jobs are in the securities industry?
Lower Manhattan is the third-largest central business district in the United States and is home to the New York Stock Exchange, on Wall Street, and the NASDAQ, at 165 Broadway, representing the world's largest and second largest stock exchanges, respectively, when measured both by overall average daily trading volume and by total market capitalization of their listed companies in 2013	On what street is the New York Stock Exchange headquartered?
5 million m2) of office space in 2015, making it the largest office market in the United States, while Midtown Manhattan, with nearly 400 million square feet (37	About how many million square feet of office space is present in Midtown Manhattan?
Silicon Alley, centered in Manhattan, has evolved into a metonym for the sphere encompassing the New York City metropolitan region's high technology industries involving the Internet, new media, telecommunications, digital media, software development, biotechnology, game design, financial technology , and other fields within information technology that are supported by its entrepreneurship ecosystem and venture capital investments	In what borough is Silicon Alley located?
Bloomberg announced his choice of Cornell University and Technion-Israel Institute of Technology to build a US$2 billion graduate school of applied sciences called Cornell Tech on Roosevelt Island with the goal of transforming New York City into the world's premier technology capital	Along with Cornell University, what institution is involved in the building of Cornell Tech?
Tourism is a vital industry for New York City, which has witnessed a growing combined volume of international and domestic tourists – receiving approximately 51 million tourists in 2011, 54 million in 2013, and a record 56	How many tourists visited New York in 2011?
I Love New York is both a logo and a song that are the basis of an advertising campaign and have been used since 1977 to promote tourism in New York City, and later to promote New York State as well	What English phrase does I ❤ NY represent?
Major tourist destinations include Times Square; Broadway theater productions; the Empire State Building; the Statue of Liberty; Ellis Island; the United Nations Headquarters; museums such as the Metropolitan Museum of Art; greenspaces such as Central Park and Washington Square Park; Rockefeller Center; the Manhattan Chinatown; luxury shopping along Fifth and Madison Avenues; and events such as the Halloween Parade in Greenwich Village; the Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade; the lighting of the Rockefeller Center Christmas Tree; the St	In what neighborhood does the Halloween Parade take place?
Manhattan was on track to have an estimated 90,000 hotel rooms at the end of 2014, a 10% increase from 2013	About how many hotel rooms are there in Manhattan?
As of 2012, New York City was the second largest center for filmmaking and television production in the United States, producing about 200 feature films annually, employing 130,000 individuals, and generating an estimated $7	Approximately how many feature films are made in New York City every year?
Two of the top three record labels' headquarters are in New York: Sony Music Entertainment and Warner Music Group	Along with Warner Music Group, what top three record label is based in New York City?
More than 200 newspapers and 350 consumer magazines have an office in the city, and the publishing industry employs about 25,000 people	How many people work in the New York publishing industry?
2	How many national newspapers out of the three are from New York?
The three major American broadcast networks are all headquartered in New York: ABC, CBS, and NBC	Along with ABC and NBC, what other major broadcaster is based in New York?
The oldest public-access television channel in the United States is the Manhattan Neighborhood Network, founded in 1971	What is the name of the first public-access TV channel in the country?
The New York City Public Schools system, managed by the New York City Department of Education, is the largest public school system in the United States, serving about 1	What city department runs the public school system?
The New York City Charter School Center assists the setup of new charter schools	What institution aids in the creation of charter schools in New York?
Over 600,000 students are enrolled in New York City's over 120 higher education institutions, the highest number of any city in the United States, including over half million in the City University of New York system alone in 2014	About how many students attend schools in the City University of New York system?
The New York Public Library, which has the largest collection of any public library system in the United States, serves Manhattan, the Bronx, and Staten Island	What is the largest library in the United States?
The New York City Health and Hospitals Corporation operates the public hospitals and clinics in New York City	The largest municipal healthcare in the US is what?
The most well-known hospital in the HHC system is Bellevue Hospital, the oldest public hospital in the United States	The public hospital that has been around the longest in the US is what?
The New York City Police Department has been the largest police force in the United States by a significant margin, with over 35,000 sworn officers	The largest police presence in the US is NYPD with how many people?
New York experienced a record low of 328 homicides in 2014 and has a far lower murder rate than other major American cities	What was the low record for homicides in 2014 in NYC?
Organized crime has long been associated with New York City, beginning with the Forty Thieves and the Roach Guards in the Five Points in the 1820s	The first major crime groups in NYC were in the 1820s known as what?
The New York City Fire Department is the largest municipal fire department in the United States and the second largest in the world after the Tokyo Fire Department	What is the largest fire department force in the world?
New York is also home to one of the largest subway systems in the world, consisting of hundreds of miles of tunnel with electrified track	New York is home to what largest transportation system in the world?
The FDNY headquarters is located at 9 MetroTech Center in Downtown Brooklyn, and the FDNY Fire Academy is located on Randalls Island	What is the address for The New York City Fire Department headquarters?
The city was a center of jazz in the 1940s, abstract expressionism in the 1950s, and the birthplace of hip hop in the 1970s	Jazz became popular during which decade in NYC?
New York City has been considered the dance capital of the world	The fashion capital of the world is what city in the US?
The advent of electric lighting led to elaborate theater productions, and in the 1880s, New York City theaters on Broadway and along 42nd Street began featuring a new stage form that became known as the Broadway musical	The Broadway Musical began in what decade?
"Forty of the city's theaters, with more than 500 seats each, are collectively known as Broadway, after the major thoroughfare that crosses the Times Square Theater District, sometimes referred to as ""The Great White Way"""	What is the nickname of the Times Square Theater District?
The New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene assigns letter grades to the city's 24,000 restaurants based upon their inspection results	How many restaurants are there in NYC?
Participation in professional sports in the city predates all professional leagues, and the city has been continuously hosting professional sports since the birth of the Brooklyn Dodgers in 1882	The Brooklyn Dodgers were created in what year?
"New York has been described as the ""Capital of Baseball"""	NYC is known as the Capital of which sport?
The city is represented in the National Football League by the New York Giants and the New York Jets, although both teams play their home games at MetLife Stadium in nearby East Rutherford, New Jersey, which hosted Super Bowl XLVIII in 2014	The New York Giants and the New York Jets place at which stadium in NYC?
The New York Islanders and the New York Rangers represent the city in the National Hockey League	There are two hockey teams located in NYC. What are they?
The city's National Basketball Association teams are the Brooklyn Nets and the New York Knicks, while the New York Liberty is the city's Women's National Basketball Association	Which two national basketball teams play in NYC?
The annual United States Open Tennis Championships is one of the world's four Grand Slam tennis tournaments and is held at the National Tennis Center in Flushing Meadows-Corona Park, Queens	Which borough of New York hosts the US Open Tennis championships?
Stickball, a street version of baseball, was popularized by youths in the 1930s, and a street in the Bronx was renamed Stickball Boulevard in the late 2000s to memorialize this	A version of baseball played in city streets was nicknamed was in the 1930s?
The iconic New York City Subway system is the largest rapid transit system in the world when measured by stations in operation, with 469, and by length of routes	Which subway system is considered the largest in the world?
New York is the only US city in which a majority of households do not have a car; only 22% of Manhattanites own a car	What percentage of people living in Manhattan own a car?
New York City's public bus fleet is the largest in North America, and the Port Authority Bus Terminal, the main intercity bus terminal of the city, serves 7,000 buses and 200,000 commuters daily, making it the busiest bus station in the world	The busiest bus station in the world in the world is called what?
Kennedy International Airport, Newark Liberty International Airport, and LaGuardia Airport; 109 million travelers used these three airports in 2012, and the city's airspace is the busiest in the nation	What is the second busiest airport in the New York metro area?
The Staten Island Ferry is the world's busiest ferry route, carrying approximately 20 million passengers on the 5	The world's most popular ferry route is which in NYC? 
The George Washington Bridge is the world's busiest motor vehicle bridge, connecting Manhattan to Bergen County, New Jersey	Which bridge in NYC is the busiest in the world?
The Lincoln Tunnel, which carries 120,000 vehicles a day under the Hudson River between New Jersey and Midtown Manhattan, is the busiest vehicular tunnel in the world	Which tunnel do 120,000 vehicles travel through a day in NYC?
New York's high rate of public transit use, over 200,000 daily cyclists as of 2014, and many pedestrian commuters make it the most energy-efficient major city in the United States	How many daily bicycle riders are there in NYC?
New York City is supplied with drinking water by the protected Catskill Mountains watershed	Who supplies NYC with drinkable water?
The City Council is a unicameral body consisting of 51 council members whose districts are defined by geographic population boundaries	How many members are on the NYC city council?
As of November 2008, 67% of registered voters in the city are Democrats	Which political party holds the majority of most office terms in NYC?
New York City has the most post-graduate life sciences degrees awarded annually in the United States, with 127 Nobel laureates having roots in local institutions as of 2004; while in 2012, 43,523 licensed physicians were practicing in New York City	As of 2012, how many physicians were working in New York City?
Each year HHC's facilities provide about 225,000 admissions, one million emergency room visits and five million clinic visits to New Yorkers	How many people are admitted to HHC institutions annually?
Another theory is that widespread exposure to lead pollution from automobile exhaust, which can lower intelligence and increase aggression levels, incited the initial crime wave in the mid-20th century, most acutely affecting heavily trafficked cities like New York	Being exposed to what type of pollution has been theorized to increase aggression?
"In describing New York, author Tom Wolfe said, ""Culture just seems to be in the air, like part of the weather"	"Who commented on New York that ""culture just seems to be in the air, like part of the weather""?"
Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, anchoring Lincoln Square on the Upper West Side of Manhattan, is home to numerous influential arts organizations, including the Metropolitan Opera, New York City Opera, New York Philharmonic, and New York City Ballet, as well as the Vivian Beaumont Theater, the Juilliard School, Jazz at Lincoln Center, and Alice Tully Hall	In what borough is the Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts located?
Museum Mile is the name for a section of Fifth Avenue running from 82nd to 105th streets on the Upper East Side of Manhattan, in an area sometimes called Upper Carnegie Hill	What New York thoroughfare is Museum Mile located on?
The New York area is home to a distinctive regional speech pattern called the New York dialect, alternatively known as Brooklynese or New Yorkese	Along with New Yorkese, what is another name for the New York dialect?
The character Archie Bunker from the 1970s sitcom All in the Family was a notable example of having used this pattern of speech, which continues to fade in its overall presence	What sitcom did the Archie Bunker character feature in?
In soccer, New York City is represented by New York City FC of Major League Soccer, who play their home games at Yankee Stadium	What Major League Soccer franchise is based in New York?
Mass transit in New York City, most of which runs 24 hours a day, accounts for one in every three users of mass transit in the United States, and two-thirds of the nation's rail riders live in the New York City Metropolitan Area	What fraction of United States rail riders call the New York City Metropolitan Area home?
The combined systems converge at Grand Central Terminal and Pennsylvania Station and contain more than 250 stations and 20 rail lines	How many rail lines are there on New York City's commuter rail network?
Like the New York City Subway, the PATH operates 24 hours a day; meaning three of the six rapid transit systems in the world which operate on 24-hour schedules are wholly or partly in New York 	How many 24-hour rapid transit systems are located in New York?
Multibillion US$ heavy-rail transit projects under construction in New York City include the Second Avenue Subway, the East Side Access project, and the 7 Subway Extension	Along with the East Side Access project and 7 Subway Extension, what heavy-rail project is being built in New York City?
Other features of the city's transportation infrastructure encompass more than 12,000 yellow taxicabs; various competing startup transportation network companies; and an aerial tramway that transports commuters between Roosevelt Island and Manhattan Island	About how many yellow cabs operate in New York?
Several of the city's streets and avenues, like Broadway, Wall Street, Madison Avenue, and Seventh Avenue are also used as metonyms for national industries there: the theater, finance, advertising, and fashion organizations, respectively	What industry is Broadway associated with?
Because these highways serve millions of outer borough and suburban residents who commute into Manhattan, it is quite common for motorists to be stranded for hours in traffic jams that are a daily occurrence, particularly during rush hour	At what time are drivers in New York most likely to experience traffic jams?
New York City is located on one of the world's largest natural harbors, and the boroughs of Manhattan and Staten Island are coterminous with islands of the same names, while Queens and Brooklyn are located at the west end of the larger Long Island, and The Bronx is located at the southern tip of New York State's mainland	What island is the borough of Brooklyn located on?
The Manhattan Bridge, Throgs Neck Bridge, Triborough Bridge, and Verrazano-Narrows Bridge are all examples of Structural Expressionism	What architectural style does the Throgs Neck Bridge reflect?
Also, by 2010, the city had 3,715 hybrid taxis and other clean diesel vehicles, representing around 28% of New York's taxi fleet in service, the most of any city in North America	How many clean diesel and hybrid taxicabs did New York City have in 2010?
"Mayor Bill de Blasio has committed to an 80% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions between 2014 and 2050 to reduce the city's contributions to climate change, beginning with a comprehensive ""Green Buildings"" plan"	What percent reduction of greenhouse gases does Mayor de Blasio want to see by 2050?
5-mile a long estuary that forms part of the border between the boroughs of Brooklyn and Queens, has been designated a Superfund site for environmental clean-up and remediation of the waterway's recreational and economic resources for many communities	How long is Newtown Creek in kilometers?
New York City has been a metropolitan municipality with a mayor-council form of government since its consolidation in 1898	What type of government does New York City have?
Manhattan hosts the First Department of the Supreme Court, Appellate Division while Brooklyn hosts the Second Department	What numbered department of the Supreme Court is located in Brooklyn?
Uniquely among major American cities, New York is divided between, and is host to the main branches of, two different US district courts: the District Court for the Southern District of New York, whose main courthouse is on Foley Square near City Hall in Manhattan and whose jurisdiction includes Manhattan and the Bronx, and the District Court for the Eastern District of New York, whose main courthouse is in Brooklyn and whose jurisdiction includes Brooklyn, Queens, and Staten Island	In what borough is the main courthouse of the District Court for the Southern District of New York located?
New York is the most important source of political fundraising in the United States, as four of the top five ZIP codes in the nation for political contributions are in Manhattan	Four-fifths of the ZIP codes that provide the highest amount of political contributions in the United States are located in what borough?
was restructured and renamed New York City Global Partners	What is the new name of the Sister City Program of the City of New York, Inc.?
To Kill a Mockingbird is a novel by Harper Lee published in 1960	When did To Kill a Mockingbird first get circulated?
The book is widely taught in schools in the United States with lessons that emphasize tolerance and decry prejudice	To Kill a Mockingbird is widely read in which countries schools?
"Author Mary McDonough Murphy, who collected individual impressions of To Kill a Mockingbird by several authors and public figures, calls the book, ""an astonishing phenomenon"""	Who gathered impressions of To Kill a Mockingbird from other authors and famous people?
Lee continued to respond to her work's impact until her death in February 2016, although she had refused any personal publicity for herself or the novel since 1964	When did Harper Lee pass away?
Born in 1926, Harper Lee grew up in the Southern town of Monroeville, Alabama, where she became close friends with soon-to-be famous writer Truman Capote	Who did Harper Lee become childhood friends with?
"After finishing the first draft and returning it to Lippincott, the manuscript, at that point titled ""Go Set a Watchman"", fell into the hands of Therese von Hohoff Torrey — known professionally as Tay Hohoff — a small, wiry veteran editor in her late 50s"	The first draft of To Kill a Mockingbird was named what?
Lee had lost her mother, who suffered from mental illness, six years before she met Hohoff at Lippincott’s offices	What ailment did Harper Lee's mother suffer from?
The book was published on July 11, 1960	What date did To Kill a Mockingbird begin to circulate?
"The story takes place during three years of the Great Depression in the fictional ""tired old town"" of Maycomb, Alabama, the seat of Maycomb County"	Where is the setting for To Kill a Mockingbird?
Judge Taylor appoints Atticus to defend Tom Robinson, a black man who has been accused of raping a young white woman, Mayella Ewell	What was the name of the woman who was allegedly raped in the book?
Atticus does not want Jem and Scout to be present at Tom Robinson's trial	What are the names of Atticus Finch's children in the book?
Finally, he attacks the defenseless Jem and Scout while they walk home on a dark night after the school Halloween pageant	Who did Bob Ewell attack during the story?
Sheriff Tate arrives and discovers that Bob Ewell has died during the fight	What was the name of the police officer who discovered Bob Ewell's body?
"Lee has said that To Kill a Mockingbird is not an autobiography, but rather an example of how an author ""should write about what he knows and write truthfully"""	Harper Lee has stated that To Kill a Mockingbird is not what genre of book?
Just as Dill lived next door to Scout during the summer, Capote lived next door to Lee with his aunts while his mother visited New York City	Where did Truman Capote live in relation to Lee?
When Lee was 10 years old, a white woman near Monroeville accused a black man named Walter Lett of raping her	At what age was Lee when a white woman accused a black guy of rape?
Satire and irony are used to such an extent that Tavernier-Courbin suggests one interpretation for the book's title: Lee is doing the mocking—of education, the justice system, and her own society by using them as subjects of her humorous disapproval	What two forms of humor are most found in To Kill a Mockingbird?
When Atticus is out of town, Jem locks a Sunday school classmate in the church basement with the furnace during a game of Shadrach	Where does Jem trap a fellow peer of school in the story?
Scholars have characterized To Kill a Mockingbird as both a Southern Gothic and coming-of-age or Bildungsroman novel	What genre of book is To Kill a Mockingbird typically called?
"Jem says to their neighbor Miss Maudie the day after the trial, ""It's like bein' a caterpillar wrapped in a cocoon"	What was the name of the neighbor that Jem speaks too after Tom Robinson's trial?
"Claudia Durst Johnson considers it ""reasonable to believe"" that the novel was shaped by two events involving racial issues in Alabama: Rosa Parks' refusal to yield her seat on a city bus to a white person, which sparked the 1955 Montgomery Bus Boycott, and the 1956 riots at the University of Alabama after Autherine Lucy and Polly Myers were admitted "	When did the Montgomery Bus Boycott take place?
Any transgressions by black males that merely hinted at sexual contact with white females during the time the novel was set often resulted in a punishment of death for the accused	The main jurors in Tom Robinson's trial were all which race?
For example, Atticus must shoot a rabid dog, even though it is not his job to do so	Atticus is tasked with killing what animal in the novel?
When Scout embarrasses her poorer classmate, Walter Cunningham, at the Finch home one day, Calpurnia, their black cook, chastises and punishes her for doing so	Who does the cooking at the Finch's house?
"Scholars argue that Lee's approach to class and race was more complex ""than ascribing racial prejudice primarily to 'poor white trash'"	Are the Ewell's considered rich or poor?
"Dubose, who is determined to break herself of a morphine addiction, Atticus tells Jem that courage is ""when you're licked before you begin but you begin anyway and you see it through no matter what"""	Mrs. Dubose suffers from an addiction to what?
"Charles Shields, who has written the only book-length biography of Harper Lee to date, offers the reason for the novel's enduring popularity and impact is that ""its lessons of human dignity and respect for others remain fundamental and universal"""	Who has written the only biography of Harper Lee?
"By balancing the masculine influences of Atticus and Jem with the feminine influences of Calpurnia and Miss Maudie, one scholar writes, ""Lee gradually demonstrates that Scout is becoming a feminist in the South, for with the use of first-person narration, she indicates that Scout/ Jean Louise still maintains the ambivalence about being a Southern lady she possessed as a child"	Who are the main female role models for Scout during the story?
Bob Ewell, it is hinted, molested his daughter, and Mr	In the book, which character was expected of molesting their child?
Dolphus Raymond has been exiled by society for taking a black woman as his common-law wife and having interracial children; Mayella Ewell is beaten by her father in punishment for kissing Tom Robinson; by being turned into a non-person, Boo Radley receives a punishment far greater than any court could have given him	Which character is chastised in the book for marrying a black woman?
Songbirds and their associated symbolism appear throughout the novel	Which animal serves as a symbol throughout the book?
The book went through numerous subsequent printings and became widely available through its inclusion in the Book of the Month Club and editions released by Reader's Digest Condensed Books	Reader's Digest included To Kill a Mockingbird in what program of theirs?
One year after its publication To Kill a Mockingbird had been translated into ten languages	After one year when To Kill a Mockingbird first came out, how many languages has it been printed in?
Mary McDonagh Murphy interviewed celebrities including Oprah Winfrey, Rosanne Cash, Tom Brokaw, and Harper's sister Alice Lee, who read the novel and compiled their impressions of it as children and adults into a book titled Scout, Atticus, and Boo	Public figure's impressions of the novel were formed into a book called what?
""" Morris Dees of the Southern Poverty Law Center cites Atticus Finch as the reason he became a lawyer, and Richard Matsch, the federal judge who presided over the Timothy McVeigh trial, counts Atticus as a major judicial influence"	Atticus Finch's integrity has become a model for which job?
"However, in 1997, the Alabama State Bar erected a monument to Atticus in Monroeville, marking his existence as the ""first commemorative milestone in the state's judicial history"""	What year was a statue of Atticus build in Alabama?
To Kill a Mockingbird has been a source of significant controversy since its being the subject of classroom study as early as 1963	To Kill a Mockingbird was first studied in American schools in what year?
One of the first incidents of the book being challenged was in Hanover, Virginia, in 1966: a parent protested that the use of rape as a plot device was immoral	When was the first major controversy that surfaced from the book?
"The novel is cited as a factor in the success of the civil rights movement in the 1960s, however, in that it ""arrived at the right moment to help the South and the nation grapple with the racial tensions the accelerating civil rights movement"""	What movement in the '60s did the novel help spark?
"In 2003, a Tuscaloosa newspaper quoted Capote's biological father, Archulus Persons, as claiming that Capote had written ""almost all"" of the book"	Who was Truman Capote's father?
In 1961, when To Kill a Mockingbird was in its 41st week on the bestseller list, it was awarded the Pulitzer Prize, stunning Lee	Which year did To Kill a Mockingbird win the Pulitzer Prize?
In 2001, Lee was inducted into the Alabama Academy of Honor	Which year was Lee awarded an induction into the Alabama Academy of Honor?
In 2006, Lee was awarded an honorary doctorate from the University of Notre Dame	Which school granted Lee an honory doctorate in 2006?
The book was made into the well-received 1962 film with the same title, starring Gregory Peck as Atticus Finch	A movie adaptation of the book was released in what year?
Lee's father died before the film's release, and Lee was so impressed with Peck's performance that she gave him her father's pocketwatch, which he had with him the evening he was awarded the Oscar for best actor	What item did Lee give the actor Gregory Peck after portraying Atticus Finch?
"In May 2005, Lee made an uncharacteristic appearance at the Los Angeles Public Library at the request of Peck's widow Veronique, who said of Lee: ""She's like a national treasure"	When did Lee randomly show up at the Los Angeles Public Library?
The book has also been adapted as a play by Christopher Sergel	Who turned the novel into a play?
Sergel's play toured in the UK starting at West Yorkshire Playhouse in Leeds in 2006, and again in 2011 starting at the York Theatre Royal, both productions featuring Duncan Preston as Atticus Finch	What country did Sergel's play tour around in and perform in 2006?
An earlier draft of To Kill a Mockingbird, titled Go Set a Watchman, was controversially released on July 14, 2015	When was Go Set a Watchman introduced to the public?
The novel is renowned for its warmth and humor, despite dealing with the serious issues of rape and racial inequality	What two serious moral issues are dealt with in the novel?
"The strongest element of style noted by critics and reviewers is Lee's talent for narration, which in an early review in Time was called ""tactile brilliance"""	What is Lee's strongest style of writing?
"However, she gave some insight into her themes when, in a rare letter to the editor, she wrote in response to the passionate reaction her book caused: ""Surely it is plain to the simplest intelligence that To Kill a Mockingbird spells out in words of seldom more than two syllables a code of honor and conduct, Christian in its ethic, that is the heritage of all Southerners"	According to Lee, her book simply expressed a Christian code of honor and conduct inherit to whom?
The first part of the novel concerns the children's fascination with Boo Radley and their feelings of safety and comfort in the neighborhood	Besides the children's fascination with Boo, the first part of the book was concerned about their feelings for what?
Tom Robinson is the chief example among several innocents destroyed carelessly or deliberately throughout the novel	Who is the main example of an innocent destroyed in the novel?
Dave claims that because every character has to face, or even suffer defeat, the book takes on elements of a classical tragedy	Reviewer R. A. Dave classified the novel how?
"The Chicago Sunday Tribune noted the even-handed approach to the narration of the novel's events, writing: ""This is in no way a sociological novel"	What newspaper wrote that the novel has strong contemporary national significance?
"Some lamented the use of poor white Southerners, and one-dimensional black victims, and Granville Hicks labeled the book ""melodramatic and contrived"""	Which reviewer called the book melodramatic and contrived?
"Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie writing in The Guardian states that Lee, rare among American novelists, writes with ""a fiercely progressive ink, in which there is nothing inevitable about racism and its very foundation is open to question"", comparing her to William Faulkner, who wrote about racism as an inevitability"	Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie vompared Lee to whom?
"Native Alabamian Allen Barra sharply criticized Lee and the novel in The Wall Street Journal calling Atticus a ""repository of cracker-barrel epigrams"" and the novel represents a ""sugar-coated myth"" of Alabama history"	Who criticized Lee in The Wall Street Journal?
"In its use of racial epithets, stereotyped depictions of superstitious blacks, and Calpurnia, who to some critics is an updated version of the ""contented slave"" motif and to others simply unexplored, the book is viewed as marginalizing black characters"	Which character has some critics deemed a variation of a contented slave?
Diane McWhorter, Pulitzer Prize-winning historian of the Birmingham civil rights campaign, asserts that To Kill a Mockingbird condemns racism instead of racists, and states that every child in the South has moments of racial cognitive dissonance when they are faced with the harsh reality of inequality	According to Diane McWhorter, every child in the South had to face what?
"According to a National Geographic article, the novel is so revered in Monroeville that people quote lines from it like Scripture; yet Harper Lee herself refused to attend any performances, because ""she abhors anything that trades on the book's fame"""	How do the citizens of Monroeville quote lines of the book?
Solar energy is radiant light and heat from the Sun harnessed using a range of ever-evolving technologies such as solar heating, photovoltaics, solar thermal energy, solar architecture and artificial photosynthesis	Where does solar energy come from?
The Earth receives 174,000 terawatts of incoming solar radiation at the upper atmosphere	How many terawatts of solar radiation does the Earth receive?
Solar radiation is absorbed by the Earth's land surface, oceans – which cover about 71% of the globe – and atmosphere	The Earth's oceans cover what percentage of the globe?
The total solar energy absorbed by Earth's atmosphere, oceans and land masses is approximately 3,850,000 exajoules per year	Each year the Earth absorbs how much solar energy in exajoules?
Although solar energy refers primarily to the use of solar radiation for practical ends, all renewable energies, other than geothermal and tidal, derive their energy from the Sun in a direct or indirect way	Where do the majority of renewable energies derive their energy from?
Active solar techniques use photovoltaics, concentrated solar power, solar thermal collectors, pumps, and fans to convert sunlight into useful outputs	Are supply side solar technologies generally active or passive?
In 1897, Frank Shuman, a U	What was the name of the inventor who built a solar engine in 1897?
Shuman built the world’s first solar thermal power station in Maadi, Egypt, between 1912 and 1913	Where did Shuman build the world's first solar thermal power station?
In low geographical latitudes from 60 to 70% of the domestic hot water use with temperatures up to 60 °C can be provided by solar heating systems	According to Shuman, up to what percentage of domestic hot water can be provided by solar heating systems?
As of 2007, the total installed capacity of solar hot water systems is approximately 154 thermal gigawatt 	What was the total capacity of solar hot water systems in 2007 in gigawatts?
65 EJ/yr) of the energy used in commercial buildings and nearly 50% (10	What percentage of energy in commercial buildings comes from HVAC systems?
Thermal mass is any material that can be used to store heat—heat from the Sun in the case of solar energy	Materials that can be used to store heat are known as what kind of mass?
A solar chimney is a passive solar ventilation system composed of a vertical shaft connecting the interior and exterior of a building	What kind of system is a solar chimney?
When planted on the southern side of a building in the northern hemisphere or the northern side in the southern hemisphere, their leaves provide shade during the summer, while the bare limbs allow light to pass during the winter	The placement of deciduous trees on the Equator facing side of a building can have a negative effect on solar availability in which season?
The simplest solar cooker is the box cooker first built by Horace de Saussure in 1767	Horace de Saussure built the first box cooker in what year?
The first commercial system was the Solar Total Energy Project in Shenandoah, Georgia, USA where a field of 114 parabolic dishes provided 50% of the process heating, air conditioning and electrical requirements for a clothing factory	The Solar Total Energy Project had a field of how many parabolic dishes?
A large-scale solar distillation project was first constructed in 1872 in the Chilean mining town of Las Salinas	In what year was a large scale solar distillation project constructed in Las Salinas?
It is recommended by the World Health Organization as a viable method for household water treatment and safe storage	Solar water disinfection is recommended by which organization?
A further environmental advantage is that algae grow in such ponds and consume carbon dioxide in photosynthesis, although algae may produce toxic chemicals that make the water unusable	What is a possible negative effect of algae in water stabilization ponds?
Solar power is anticipated to become the world's largest source of electricity by 2050, with solar photovoltaics and concentrated solar power contributing 16 and 11 percent to the global overall consumption, respectively	By what year is solar power expected to become the world's greatest source of electricity?
Since 1985 the eventually 354 MW SEGS CSP installation, in the Mojave Desert of California, is the largest solar power plant in the world	The largest solar power plant in the world is located in what desert?
The first solar cell was constructed by Charles Fritts in the 1880s	In the 1880s, who constructed the first solar cell?
In all of these systems a working fluid is heated by the concentrated sunlight, and is then used for power generation or energy storage	In all the different CSP systems, concentrated sunlight is used to heat what?
Socrates' Megaron House is a classic example of passive solar design	Socrate's what is a classic example of passive solar design?
Urban heat islands are metropolitan areas with higher temperatures than that of the surrounding environment	UHI is an abbreviation of what?
During the short growing seasons of the Little Ice Age, French and English farmers employed fruit walls to maximize the collection of solar energy	During the Little Ice Age, what did English and French farmers use to increase collection of solar energy?
Primitive greenhouses were first used during Roman times to produce cucumbers year-round for the Roman emperor Tiberius	When were the first greenhouses used?
The World Solar Challenge is a biannual solar-powered car race, where teams from universities and enterprises compete over 3,021 kilometres across central Australia from Darwin to Adelaide	What is the name of the solar powered car race held every two years?
In 1975, the first practical solar boat was constructed in England	The first practical solar boat was constructed in what year?
On 29 April 1979, the Solar Riser made the first flight in a solar-powered, fully controlled, man carrying flying machine, reaching an altitude of 40 feet 	What altitude did the Solar Riser reach in feet?
The multielectron catalytic chemistry involved in making carbon-based fuels from reduction of carbon dioxide is challenging; a feasible alternative is hydrogen production from protons, though use of water as the source of electrons requires mastering the multielectron oxidation of two water molecules to molecular oxygen	What is a possible alternative to making carbon-based fuels from reduction of carbon dioxide?
The Solzinc process under development at the Weizmann Institute uses a 1 MW solar furnace to decompose zinc oxide at temperatures above 1,200 °C 	What is the name of the process under development at the Weizmann Institute?
Thermal mass systems can store solar energy in the form of heat at domestically useful temperatures for daily or interseasonal durations	In what form do thermal mass systems store solar energy?
Phase change materials such as paraffin wax and Glauber's salt are another thermal storage media	Paraffin wax is an example of what kind of storage media?
Off-grid PV systems have traditionally used rechargeable batteries to store excess electricity	Where do off-grid PV systems store excess electricity?
The energy is recovered when demand is high by releasing the water, with the pump becoming a hydroelectric power generator	When water is released due to high demand, the pump become swhat?
The 1973 oil embargo and 1979 energy crisis caused a reorganization of energy policies around the world and brought renewed attention to developing solar technologies	The oil embargo in what year was a contributing factor to the reorganization of energy policies?
These systems saw increasing use until the 1920s but were gradually replaced by cheaper and more reliable heating fuels	The solar water heaters introduced in the US in the 1890s saw growth until what time period?
The International Energy Agency has said that solar energy can make considerable contributions to solving some of the most urgent problems the world now faces:	Which organization believes that solar energy can solve some of our most pressing issues?
For example, ISO 9050 relates to glass in building while ISO 10217 relates to the materials used in solar water heaters	ISO 9050 relates to standards for what?
It is an important source of renewable energy and its technologies are broadly characterized as either passive solar or active solar depending on the way they capture and distribute solar energy or convert it into solar power	What are the technologies used to capture solar energy characterized as?
The United Nations Development Programme in its 2000 World Energy Assessment found that the annual potential of solar energy was 1,575–49,837 exajoules 	What is solar energy's yearly potential?
It will increase countries’ energy security through reliance on an indigenous, inexhaustible and mostly import-independent resource, enhance sustainability, reduce pollution, lower the costs of mitigating global warming, and keep fossil fuel prices lower than otherwise	How will solar energy increase energy security?
The potential solar energy that could be used by humans differs from the amount of solar energy present near the surface of the planet because factors such as geography, time variation, cloud cover, and the land available to humans limits the amount of solar energy that we can acquire	Why does the amount of usable solar energy differ from the amount near the planets surface?
Geography effects solar energy potential because areas that are closer to the equator have a greater amount of solar radiation	Why does geography have an effect of the amount of solar energy available?
In addition, land availability has a large effect on the available solar energy because solar panels can only be set up on land that is unowned and suitable for solar panels	Why does land availability have an effect on solar energy?
In 2000, the United Nations Development Programme, UN Department of Economic and Social Affairs, and World Energy Council published an estimate of the potential solar energy that could be used by humans each year that took into account factors such as insolation, cloud cover, and the land that is usable by humans	What factors were taken into account in the estimate published in 2000 on solar energy?
Solar power is the conversion of sunlight into electricity, either directly using photovoltaics , or indirectly using concentrated solar power 	What is solar power?
Sunlight has influenced building design since the beginning of architectural history	What has influenced the design since the beginning of architectural history?
A solar balloon is a black balloon that is filled with ordinary air	What is a solar balloon?
The early development of solar technologies starting in the 1860s was driven by an expectation that coal would soon become scarce	Why was solar technology developed in the 1860s?
In 2011, a report by the International Energy Agency found that solar energy technologies such as photovoltaics, solar hot water and concentrated solar power could provide a third of the world’s energy by 2060 if politicians commit to limiting climate change	According to a report in 2011, by what year could solar energy provide a third of the world's energy?
Kanye Omari West is an American hip hop recording artist, record producer, rapper, fashion designer, and entrepreneur	What year was Kanye born?
Raised in Chicago, West briefly attended art school before becoming known as a producer for Roc-A-Fella Records in the early 2000s, producing hit singles for artists such as Jay-Z and Alicia Keys	What was the first label that Kanye produced for?
West is one of the best-selling artists of all time, having sold more than 32 million albums and 100 million digital downloads worldwide	How many albums has Kanye sold?
3	"How many albums does Kanye have on the ""500 Greatest Albums of All Time"" list?"
3	How many of Kanye West's albums were recognized by Rolling Stone Magazine?
 West, was a professor of English at Clark Atlanta University, and the Chair of the English Department at Chicago State University before retiring to serve as his manager	What subject did Kanye's mother teach at her university?
At the age of 10, West moved with his mother to Nanjing, China, where she was teaching at Nanjing University as part of an exchange program	Where did Kanye and his mother relocate when he was 10?
West demonstrated an affinity for the arts at an early age; he began writing poetry when he was five years old	What was Kanye creating when he was five?
After graduating from high school, West received a scholarship to attend Chicago's American Academy of Art in 1997 and began taking painting classes, but shortly after transferred to Chicago State University to study English	Where did Kanye receive a scholarship to attend?
Kanye West began his early production career in the mid-1990s, making beats primarily for burgeoning local artists, eventually developing a style that involved speeding up vocal samples from classic soul records	Who were the beats Kanye made in the 90's originally intended for?
The third song on Foxy Brown's second studio album Chyna Doll was produced by West	Kanye produced the third song from the second album of what artist?
West got his big break in the year 2000, when he began to produce for artists on Roc-A-Fella Records	What label did Kanye begin to work for in 2000?
Despite his success as a producer, West's true aspiration was to be a rapper	Although Kanye was achieving fame by producing, what did he actually want to be?
According to Capitol Record's A&R, Joe Weinberger, he was approached by West and almost signed a deal with him, but another person in the company convinced Capitol's president not to	Who almost picked up Kanye but was ultimately swayed?
"The composition, ""Through The Wire"", expressed West's experience after the accident, and helped lay the foundation for his debut album, as according to West ""all the better artists have expressed what they were going through"""	What track did Kanye compose and perform while injured from his accident?
Once he had completed the album, it was leaked months before its release date	What happened to Kanye's debut album that caused him to remaster most of it?
"The College Dropout was eventually issued by Roc-A-Fella in February 2004, shooting to number two on the Billboard 200 as his debut single, ""Through the Wire"" peaked at number fifteen on the Billboard Hot 100 chart for five weeks"	What place on the Billboard chart did Kanye's album debut at?
2	How many publications voted The College Dropout for album of the year?
Though West had not been able to afford many live instruments around the time of his debut album, the money from his commercial success enabled him to hire a string orchestra for his second album Late Registration	What kind of ensemble did Kanye hire to work on his second album?
While West had encountered controversy a year prior when he stormed out of the American Music Awards of 2004 after losing Best New Artist, the rapper's first large-scale controversy came just days following Late Registration's release, during a benefit concert for Hurricane Katrina victims	The loss of which award caused Kanye to leave the American Music Awards?
Fresh off spending the previous year touring the world with U2 on their Vertigo Tour, West felt inspired to compose anthemic rap songs that could operate more efficiently in large arenas	What band did Kanye tour with for a year?
West's third studio album, Graduation, garnered major publicity when its release date pitted West in a sales competition against rapper 50 Cent's Curtis	What was the name of Kanye's third album?
Months later, West and fiancée Alexis Phifer ended their engagement and their long-term intermittent relationship, which had begun in 2002	Following the loss of his mother, who did Kanye end his long-term relationship with?
808s & Heartbreak, which features extensive use of the eponymous Roland TR-808 drum machine and contains themes of love, loneliness, and heartache, was released by Island Def Jam to capitalize on Thanksgiving weekend in November 2008	What label pushed out Kanye's fourth studio album?
"In 2012, Rolling Stone journalist Matthew Trammell asserted that the record was ahead of its time and wrote, ""Now that popular music has finally caught up to it, 808s & Heartbreak has revealed itself to be Kanye’s most vulnerable work, and perhaps his most brilliant"	"What journalist gave ""808s and Hearbreak"" critical acclimation 4 years after its release?"
West's controversial incident the following year at the 2009 MTV Video Music Awards was arguably his biggest controversy, and led to widespread outrage throughout the music industry	Where did Kanye's famous mic-grab incident occur at?
Following the highly publicized incident, West took a brief break from music and threw himself into fashion, only to hole up in Hawaii for the next few months writing and recording his next album	Where did Kanye base himself to create his next album?
My Beautiful Dark Twisted Fantasy, West's fifth studio album, was released in November 2010 to rave reviews from critics, many of whom described it as his best work that solidified his comeback	What is the name of Kanye's album released in 2010?
"Following a headlining set at Coachella 2011 that was described by The Hollywood Reporter as ""one of greatest hip-hop sets of all time"", West released the collaborative album Watch the Throne with Jay-Z"	What festival did Kanye headline in 2011?
Sessions for West's sixth solo effort begin to take shape in early 2013 in his own personal loft's living room at a Paris hotel	Where did Kanye begin production on his sixth album?
In June 2013, West and television personality Kim Kardashian announced the birth of their first child, North	What was the name of Kanye's first child with Kim Kardashian?
Having initially announced a new album entitled So Help Me God slated for a 2014 release, in March 2015 West announced that the album would instead be tentatively called SWISH	What did Kanye change the title of his next planned album from So Help Me God to?
"He announced in January 2016 on Twitter that SWISH would be released on February 11, after releasing new song ""Real Friends"" and a snippet of ""No More Parties in L"	What was the tentative release date announced for Kanye's next studio album?
"He has further described musician David Bowie as one of his ""most important inspirations,"" and named producer Puff Daddy as the ""most important cultural figure in my life"	What English musician did Kanye cite as one of his biggest inspirations?
For his second album, Late Registration , he collaborated with film score composer Jon Brion and drew influence from non-rap influences such as English trip hop group Portishead	What composer did Kanye collaborate with for his second record?
With his third album, Graduation , West moved away from the sound of his previous releases and towards a more atmospheric, rock-tinged, electronic-influenced soundscape	What was the name of Kanye's third record?
West's fourth studio album, 808s & Heartbreak , marked an even more radical departure from his previous releases, largely abandoning rap and hip hop stylings in favor of a stark electropop sound composed of virtual synthesis, the Roland TR-808 drum machine, and explicitly auto-tuned vocal tracks	What kind of sound did Kanye abandon a rap and hiphop one for with his fourth album?
West's fifth album, My Beautiful Dark Twisted Fantasy, has been noted by writers for its maximalist aesthetic and its incorporation of elements from West's previous four albums	What is Kanye's fifth album titled? 
"Describing his sixth studio album Yeezus as ""a protest to music,"" West embraced an abrasive style that incorporated industrial music, acid house, dancehall, punk, electro, and Chicago drill"	What did Kanye state that Yeezus was?
"In September 2005, West announced that he would release his Pastelle Clothing line in spring 2006, claiming ""Now that I have a Grammy under my belt and Late Registration is finished, I am ready to launch my clothing line next spring"	What did Kanye announce he would release after acquiring a Grammy in 2005?
On October 1, 2011, Kanye West premiered his women's fashion label, DW Kanye West at Paris Fashion Week	Form whom was Kanye's 2011 fashion label designed for?
On December 3, 2013, Adidas officially confirmed a new shoe collaboration deal with West	What brand struck a deal with Kanye and sparked a new clothing line?
3	"How many ""seasons"" of clothing did Kanye release?"
In August 2008, West revealed plans to open 10 Fatburger restaurants in the Chicago area; the first was set to open in September 2008 in Orland Park	What restaurant chain did Kanye aspire to open in his native Chicago?
2	How many restaurants did Kanye open?
2	How many of Kanye's Fatburger restaurants were actually opened?
West founded the record label and production company GOOD Music in 2004, in conjunction with Sony BMG, shortly after releasing his debut album, The College Dropout	What did Kanye call the label he founded in 2004?
"In his announcement, West proclaimed that the company would ""pick up where Steve Jobs left off""; DONDA would operate as ""a design company which will galvanize amazing thinkers in a creative space to bounce their dreams and ideas"" with the ""goal to make products and experiences that people want and can afford"	What was the goal of Kanye's new creative company DONDA?
On March 30, 2015, it was announced that West is a co-owner, with various other music artists, in the music streaming service Tidal	What platform was Kanye named a co-owner of in 2015?
"West, alongside his mother, founded the ""Kanye West Foundation"" in Chicago in 2003, tasked with a mission to battle dropout and illiteracy rates, while partnering with community organizations to provide underprivileged youth access to music education"	With the help of his mom, what foundation did Kanye create early in his career?
""" The foundation ceased operations in 2011"	What year did the foundation end its run?
West has additionally appeared and participated in many fundraisers, benefit concerts, and has done community work for Hurricane Katrina relief, the Kanye West Foundation, the Millions More Movement, 100 Black Men of America, a Live Earth concert benefit, World Water Day rally and march, Nike runs, and a MTV special helping young Iraq War veterans who struggle through debt and PTSD a second chance after returning home	What are some charitable efforts Kanye west has participated in?
On September 2, 2005, during a benefit concert for Hurricane Katrina relief on NBC, A Concert for Hurricane Relief, West accused President George W	During what show did Kanye take an opportunity to criticize the efforts of a U.S. President?
""" At this point, telethon producer Rick Kaplan cut off the microphone and then cut away to Chris Tucker, who was unaware of the cut for a few seconds"	What happened after Kanye made his controversial statement?
"Bush stated in an interview that the comment was ""one of the most disgusting moments"" of his presidency"	How did George W. Bush describe Kanye's controversial statement?
In September 2013, West was widely rebuked by human rights groups for performing in Kazakhstan at the wedding of authoritarian President Nursultan Nazarbayev's grandson	Kanye was criticized by human rights groups for performing in what country?
Kimmel reveals the following night that West called him to demand an apology shortly before taping	What did Kanye demand from Jimmy Kimmel in regards to the sketch?
"During a November 26, 2013 radio interview, West explained why he believed that President Obama had problems pushing policies in Washington: ""Man, let me tell you something about George Bush and oil money and Obama and no money"	What president did Kanye comment on as having trouble pushing policies while in office?
In February 2016, West again became embroiled in controversy when he posted a tweet seemingly asserting Bill Cosby's innocence in the wake of over 50 women making allegations of sexual assault directed at Cosby	What celebrity knee-deep in controversy did Kanye endorse in a 2016 tweet?
At the American Music Awards of 2004, West stormed out of the auditorium after losing Best New Artist to country singer Gretchen Wilson	To who did Kanye lose the Best New Artist award in 2004?
"On September 9, 2007, West suggested that his race had something to do with his being overlooked for opening the 2007 MTV Video Music Awards in favor of Britney Spears; he claimed, ""Maybe my skin’s not right"	What did Kanye believe was a contributing factor in him not opening for the 2007 MTV VMAs?
"On September 13, 2009, during the 2009 MTV Video Music Awards while Taylor Swift was accepting her award for Best Female Video for ""You Belong with Me"", West went on stage and grabbed the microphone to proclaim that Beyoncé's video for ""Single Ladies "", nominated for the same award, was ""one of the best videos of all time"""	What artist's award reception did Kanye interrupt onstage at the 2009 MTV VMAs?
""" After some media backlash about the reference, West posted on Twitter ""I did not diss Taylor Swift and I've never dissed her"	To which artist did Kanye profusely apologize to?
On February 8, 2015, at the 57th Annual Grammy Awards, West walked on stage as Beck was accepting his award for Album of the Year and then walked off stage, making everyone think he was joking around	Which artist's award reception did Kanye interrupt at the 57th Grammy Awards?
On August 30, 2015, West was presented with the Michael Jackson Video Vanguard Award at the MTV Video Music Awards	What award did Kanye capture at the 2015 MTV VMAs?
The largest unsuccessful petition has been to the Glastonbury Festival 2015 with 133,000+ voters stating they would prefer a rock band to headline	For what event was the largest amount of signatures collected in an attempt to keep Kanye from performing at it?
West began an on-and-off relationship with designer Alexis Phifer in 2002, and they became engaged in August 2006	Kanye's first engagement was to which well-known designer?
2	How many children does Kanye have with Kim?
She was unresponsive in the emergency room, and after resuscitation attempts, doctors pronounced her dead at approximately 8:30 pm, at age 58	How old was Kanye's mother when she died?
He appeared on Larry King Live on November 20, 2007, but left before speaking	What talk show did the doctor who performed Donda West's plastic surgery appear on?
The funeral and burial for Donda West was held in Oklahoma City on November 20, 2007	Where was Donda West's funeral?
At a December 2008 press conference in New Zealand, West spoke about his mother's death for the first time	Where did Kanye first speak on his mother's death?
"California governor Arnold Schwarzenegger signed the ""Donda West Law"", legislation which makes it mandatory for patients to provide medical clearance for elective cosmetic surgery"	What famous governor signed legislation in honor of Donda West's death?
"In December 2006, Robert ""Evel"" Knievel sued West for trademark infringement in West's video for ""Touch the Sky"""	What famous stuntman sued Kanye for purported use of his likeness in 2006?
""" Crowley were arrested at Los Angeles International Airport and booked on charges of felony vandalism after an altercation with the paparazzi in which West and Crowley broke the photographers' cameras"	What was Kanye arrested for in 2008?
West was arrested again on November 14, 2008 at the Hilton hotel near Gateshead after another scuffle involving a photographer outside the famous Tup Tup Palace nightclub in Newcastle upon Tyne	What was Kanye second arrest for?
West became increasingly agitated as a photographer, Daniel Ramos, continued to ask him why people were not allowed to speak in his presence	What paparazzi member did Kanye attack at LAX in 2013?
""" More recently, in September 2014, West referred to himself as a Christian during one of his concerts"	What are Kanye's religious beliefs?
West is among the most critically acclaimed artists of the twenty-first century, receiving praise from music critics, fans, fellow musicians, artists, and wider cultural figures for his work	How is Kanye viewed as a 21st century artist?
Early in his career, he was among the first rappers to publicly criticize the preponderance of homophobia in hip hop	What overabundance of themes did Kanye criticize early in his career?
"West has had six songs exceed 3 million in digital sales as of December 2012, with ""Gold Digger"" selling 3,086,000, ""Stronger"" selling 4,402,000, ""Heartless"" selling 3,742,000, ""E"	How many songs has Kanye had that have exceeded 3 million digital sales?
6	How many of West's six albums have gone platinum?
As of 2013, West has won a total of 21 Grammy Awards, making him one of the most awarded artists of all-time	How many Grammies has Kanye won as of 2013?
"In its 2012 list of ""500 Greatest Albums of All Time, Rolling Stone included three of West's albums—The College Dropout at number 298, Late Registration at number 118, and My Beautiful Dark Twisted Fantasy at number 353"	How many of Kanye's albums placed on the 2012 Rolling Stone list?
3	How many of West's albums were included on Rolling Stone's 500 Greatest Albums of All Time list?
"The Pitchfork online music publication ranked My Beautiful Dark Twisted Fantasy as the world's best album of the decade ""so far""—between 2010 and 2014—on August 19, 2014, while Yeezus was ranked in the eighth position of a list of 100 albums"	Which one of Kanye's albums won The Pitchfork's Album of the Decade award?
"Bush ""doesn't care about black people"" during a live 2005 television broadcast for Hurricane Katrina relief, and his interruption of singer Taylor Swift at the 2009 MTV Video Music Awards"	Whose speech did Kanye West ruin at the 2009 MTV Awards?
Buddhism /ˈbudɪzəm/ is a nontheistic religion or philosophy that encompasses a variety of traditions, beliefs and spiritual practices largely based on teachings attributed to Gautama Buddha, commonly known as the Buddha 	What type of religion is Buddhism?
Vajrayana, a body of teachings attributed to Indian siddhas, may be viewed as a third branch or merely a part of Mahayana	What is sometimes viewed as the third branch of Buddhism?
In Theravada Buddhism, the ultimate goal is the attainment of the sublime state of Nirvana, achieved by practicing the Noble Eightfold Path , thus escaping what is seen as a cycle of suffering and rebirth	What is the goal of Theravada Buddhism?
Other practices are Ten Meritorious Deeds including, giving charity to reduce the greediness; following ethical precepts; renouncing conventional living and becoming a monastic; the development of mindfulness and practice of meditation; cultivation of higher wisdom and discernment; study of scriptures; devotional practices; ceremonies; and in the Mahayana tradition, invocation of buddhas and bodhisattvas	What is one of the Ten Meritorious Deeds of Buddhism?
This narrative draws on the Nidānakathā of the Jataka tales of the Theravada, which is ascribed to Buddhaghoṣa in the 5th century CE	The Nidānakathā of the Jataka tales of the Theravada is attributed to who?
"According to author Michael Carrithers, while there are good reasons to doubt the traditional account, ""the outline of the life must be true: birth, maturity, renunciation, search, awakening and liberation, teaching, death"	"Who said ""the outline of the life must be true: birth, maturity, renunciation, search, awakening and liberation, teaching, death.""?"
The evidence of the early texts suggests that Siddhārtha Gautama was born in a community that was on the periphery, both geographically and culturally, of the northeastern Indian subcontinent in the fifth century BCE	According to early texts, when was Siddhārtha Gautama born?
According to this narrative, shortly after the birth of young prince Gautama, an astrologer named Asita visited the young prince's father, Suddhodana, and prophesied that Siddhartha would either become a great king or renounce the material world to become a holy man, depending on whether he saw what life was like outside the palace walls	What was the name of the astrologer who visited Prince Gautama's father?
Śuddhodana was determined to see his son become a king, so he prevented him from leaving the palace grounds	What did Śuddhodana do to ensure that his son became a king instead of a holy man?
Gautama first went to study with famous religious teachers of the day, and mastered the meditative attainments they taught	What was the first thing Gautama did on his spiritual quest?
At the age of 35, he famously sat in meditation under a Ficus religiosa tree now called the Bodhi Tree in the town of Bodh Gaya and vowed not to rise before achieving enlightenment	How old was Gautama when he sat under the Bodhi Tree?
Within Buddhism, samsara is defined as the continual repetitive cycle of birth and death that arises from ordinary beings' grasping and fixating on a self and experiences	What is samsara?
In Buddhism, Karma is the force that drives saṃsāra—the cycle of suffering and rebirth for each being	What does the Sanskrit term Karma translate as?
In Theravada Buddhism there can be no divine salvation or forgiveness for one's karma, since it is a purely impersonal process that is a part of the makeup of the universe	In which branch of Buddhism is it believed that there can be no divine salvation or forgiveness for karma?
Rebirth refers to a process whereby beings go through a succession of lifetimes as one of many possible forms of sentient life, each running from conception to death	What is the process in which beings go through cycles of lifetimes as many forms of sentient life?
 Rebirths in some of the higher heavens, known as the Śuddhāvāsa Worlds or Pure Abodes, can be attained only by skilled Buddhist practitioners known as anāgāmis 	Rebirth into the Śuddhāvāsa Worlds or Pure Abodes can only be attained by who?
According to East Asian and Tibetan Buddhism, there is an intermediate state between one life and the next	There is a transitional state between one life and the next according to what branches of Buddhism?
The teachings on the Four Noble Truths are regarded as central to the teachings of Buddhism, and are said to provide a conceptual framework for Buddhist thought	What is considered to be central to the teachings of Buddhism?
The first truth explains the nature of dukkha	What does the first of the Four Noble Truths explain?
The second truth is that the origin of dukkha can be known	What does the second of the Four Noble Truths explain?
The Noble Eightfold Path—the fourth of the Buddha's Noble Truths—consists of a set of eight interconnected factors or conditions, that when developed together, lead to the cessation of dukkha	What is the fourth of the Buddha's Four Noble Truths?
"Ajahn Sucitto describes the path as ""a mandala of interconnected factors that support and moderate each other"	"Who describes the Noble Eightfold Path as ""a mandala of interconnected factors that support and moderate each other.""?"
"While he searched for enlightenment, Gautama combined the yoga practice of his teacher Kalama with what later became known as ""the immeasurables"""	During his search for enlightenment, Gautama combined what teachings?
An important guiding principle of Buddhist practice is the Middle Way , which is said to have been discovered by Gautama Buddha prior to his enlightenment	When did Gautama Buddha discover the Middle Way?
Buddhist scholars have produced a number of intellectual theories, philosophies and world view concepts 	What are some of the theories and philosophies produced by Buddhist scholars?
The concept of liberation —the goal of the Buddhist path—is closely related to overcoming ignorance , a fundamental misunderstanding or mis-perception of the nature of reality	What is the goal of the Buddhist path?
The doctrine asserts that because things are impermanent, attachment to them is futile and leads to suffering 	Why is attachment to things futile?
The word roughly corresponds to a number of terms in English including suffering, pain, unsatisfactoriness, sorrow, affliction, anxiety, dissatisfaction, discomfort, anguish, stress, misery, and frustration	The term dukkha corresponds to what English terms?
Not-self is the third mark of existence	What is the third mark of existence in Buddhism?
The doctrine of pratītyasamutpāda, is an important part of Buddhist metaphysics	What is the name of the Buddhist doctrine that states that phenomena arise together in a mutually interdependent web of cause and effect?
The best-known application of the concept of pratītyasamutpāda is the scheme of Twelve Nidānas , which explain the continuation of the cycle of suffering and rebirth in detail	What is the most common application of the concept of pratītyasamutpāda?
The Twelve Nidānas describe a causal connection between the subsequent characteristics or conditions of cyclic existence, each one giving rise to the next:	What describes the connection between the conditions of cyclic existence?
Sentient beings always suffer throughout saṃsāra until they free themselves from this suffering by attaining Nirvana	How are sentient beings freed from suffering?
"Nagarjuna's primary contribution to Buddhist philosophy was the systematic exposition of the concept of śūnyatā, or ""emptiness"", widely attested in the Prajñāpāramitā sutras that emerged in his era"	Nagarjuna's main contribution was the exposition of the concept of what?
Sarvastivada teachings—which were criticized by Nāgārjuna—were reformulated by scholars such as Vasubandhu and Asanga and were adapted into the Yogacara school	What teaching were criticized by Nagarjuna?
Besides emptiness, Mahayana schools often place emphasis on the notions of perfected spiritual insight and Buddha-nature 	What does tathagatagarbha mean?
"Nirvana means ""cessation"", ""extinction"" ), ""extinguished"", ""quieted"", ""calmed""; it is also known as ""Awakening"" or ""Enlightenment"" in the West"	What term means cessation?
Bodhi is a term applied to the experience of Awakening of arahants	What is the term applied to the experience of the awakening of arahants?
Therefore, according to Mahayana Buddhism, the arahant has attained only nirvana, thus still being subject to delusion, while the bodhisattva not only achieves nirvana but full liberation from delusion as well	What has achieved nirvana and also liberation from delusion?
The term parinirvana is also encountered in Buddhism, and this generally refers to the complete nirvana attained by the arahant at the moment of death, when the physical body expires	What term is used for the complete nirvana attained by the arahant at death?
According to Buddhist traditions a Buddha is a fully awakened being who has completely purified his mind of the three poisons of desire, aversion and ignorance	Who is a fully awakened being who has purified his mind of the three poisons of desire, aversion, and ignorance?
The Pali Canon refers to many previous ones , while the Mahayana tradition additionally has many Buddhas of celestial, rather than historical, origin 	How many Buddhas are considered to have existed in the Pali Canon?
"In Theravada doctrine, a person may awaken from the ""sleep of ignorance"" by directly realizing the true nature of reality; such people are called arahants and occasionally buddhas"	"A person can awaken from the ""sleep of ignorance"" by acknowledging the true nature of what?"
Bodhi and nirvana carry the same meaning, that of being freed from craving, hate, and delusion	Nirvana and what term carry the same meaning?
In the Mahayana, the Buddha tends not to be viewed as merely human, but as the earthly projection of a beginningless and endless, omnipresent being beyond the range and reach of thought	In the Mahayana, who is thought to be an omnipresent being?
"The Buddha's death is seen as an illusion, he is living on in other planes of existence, and monks are therefore permitted to offer ""new truths"" based on his input"	Buddha's death is seen as an illusion, as he is living in other planes of what?
" The method of self-exertion or ""self-power""—without reliance on an external force or being—stands in contrast to another major form of Buddhism, Pure Land, which is characterized by utmost trust in the salvific ""other-power"" of Amitabha Buddha"	"What is characterized by the deep truts in the ""other-power"" of Amitabha Buddha"
Buddhists believe Gautama Buddha was the first to achieve enlightenment in this Buddha era and is therefore credited with the establishment of Buddhism	Who is believed to have achieved enlightenment first?
In addition, Mahayana Buddhists believe there are innumerable other Buddhas in other universes	Who believes there are innumerable other Buddhas in other universes?
Pure Land Buddhism holds that it has declined to the point where few are capable of following the path, so it may be best to rely on the power of Amitābha	What form of Buddhism has declined to the point where few are capable of following the path?
"Bodhisattva means ""enlightenment being"", and generally refers to one who is on the path to buddhahood"	What does Bodhisattva mean?
""" The Aṣṭasāhasrikā Prajñāpāramitā Sūtra, an early and important Mahayana text, contains a simple and brief definition for the term bodhisattva: ""Because he has enlightenment as his aim, a bodhisattva-mahāsattva is so called"	"What term means ""great vehicle""?"
Mahayana Buddhism encourages everyone to become bodhisattvas and to take the bodhisattva vow, where the practitioner promises to work for the complete enlightenment of all beings by practicing the six pāramitās	What buddhism encourages everyone to become bodhisattvas?
"A famous saying by the 8th-century Indian Buddhist scholar-saint Shantideva, which the 14th Dalai Lama often cites as his favourite verse, summarizes the Bodhisattva's intention as follows: ""For as long as space endures, and for as long as living beings remain, until then may I too abide to dispel the misery of the world"	Which Dalai Lama cites Shantideva's famous saying?
Devotion is an important part of the practice of most Buddhists	Devotion is an important part of the practice of most what?
Buddhism traditionally incorporates states of meditative absorption 	Buddhism traditionally incorporates states of what type of absorption?
Meditation was an aspect of the practice of the yogis in the centuries preceding the Buddha	Meditation was an aspect of the practice of who?
"Religious knowledge or ""vision"" was indicated as a result of practice both within and outside of the Buddhist fold"	Religious knowledge is also known as what?
The Buddhist texts are probably the earliest describing meditation techniques	What are probably the earliest texts describing meditation techniques?
While there is no convincing evidence for meditation in pre-Buddhist early Brahminic texts, Wynne argues that formless meditation originated in the Brahminic or Shramanic tradition, based on strong parallels between Upanishadic cosmological statements and the meditative goals of the two teachers of the Buddha as recorded in the early Buddhist texts	In pre-buddhist early Brahminic texts there is no evidence for what?
Traditionally, the first step in most Buddhist schools requires taking refuge in the Three Jewels as the foundation of one's religious practice	What is the first step in a school of Buddhism?
According to the scriptures, Gautama Buddha presented himself as a model	Who presented himself as a model?
"Śīla or sīla is usually translated into English as ""virtuous behavior"", ""morality"", ""moral discipline"", ""ethics"" or ""precept"""	What is an action committed through the body and involves intentional effort?
According to the Law of Karma, keeping the precepts is meritorious and it acts as causes that would bring about peaceful and happy effects	What keeps the cultivator from rebirth in the four realms of existance?
Śīla refers to overall principles of ethical behavior	What does sila refer to?
The precepts are not formulated as imperatives, but as training rules that laypeople undertake voluntarily to facilitate practice	Precepts are not created as imperatives, but as what?
In the eight precepts, the third precept on sexual misconduct is made more strict, and becomes a precept of celibacy	Of the eight precepts which one is on sexual misconduct?
The complete list of ten precepts may be observed by laypeople for short periods	How many precepts are on the list?
Novice-monks use the ten precepts, which are the basic precepts for monastics	How many basic precepts are there for monastics?
Regarding the monastic rules, the Buddha constantly reminds his hearers that it is the spirit that counts	Regarding the monastic rules, the Buddha reminds his hearers that it is the spirit that what?
In Eastern Buddhism, there is also a distinctive Vinaya and ethics contained within the Mahayana Brahmajala Sutra for Bodhisattvas, where, for example, the eating of meat is frowned upon and vegetarianism is actively encouraged 	Distinctive Vinaya and ethics are contained within what sutra?
In Chinese Buddhism, these exist , but Chán meditation is more popular	In Chinese Buddhism what meditation is more popular?
"In the language of the Noble Eightfold Path, samyaksamādhi is ""right concentration"""	What does the word samyaksamadhi mean?
Once the meditator achieves a strong and powerful concentration , his mind is ready to penetrate and gain insight into the ultimate nature of reality, eventually obtaining release from all suffering	What is powerful concentration called?
Samatha meditation starts from being mindful of an object or idea, which is expanded to one's body, mind and entire surroundings, leading to a state of total concentration and tranquility 	Samatha meditation starts from being mindful of an object or what?
In Buddhist practice, it is said that while samatha meditation can calm the mind, only vipassanā meditation can reveal how the mind was disturbed to start with, which is what leads to insight knowledge and understanding , and thus can lead to nirvāṇa 	In Buddhism, samatha meditation can calm the what?
In Theravāda Buddhism, the cause of human existence and suffering is identified as craving, which carries with it the various defilements	In Theravada Buddhism, what is the cause of human existence and suffering?
Prajñā or paññā means wisdom that is based on a realization of dependent origination, The Four Noble Truths and the three marks of existence	How many Noble Truths are there?
Initially, prajñā is attained at a conceptual level by means of listening to sermons , reading, studying, and sometimes reciting Buddhist texts and engaging in discourse	Initially prajna is attained at a conceptual level by means of listening to what?
Zen Buddhism , pronounced Chán in Chinese, seon in Korean or zen in Japanese is a form of Buddhism that became popular in China, Korea and Japan and that lays special emphasis on meditation	Zen Buddhism is known as what in Korea?
"Zen Buddhism is divided into two main schools: Rinzai and Sōtō , the former greatly favouring the use in meditation on the koan as a device for spiritual break-through, and the latter focusing more on shikantaza or ""just sitting"""	Zen Buddhism is divided into how many main schools?
Zen Buddhist teaching is often full of paradox, in order to loosen the grip of the ego and to facilitate the penetration into the realm of the True Self or Formless Self, which is equated with the Buddha himself	What Buddhist teachings are often full of paradox?
"Though based upon Mahayana, Tibeto-Mongolian Buddhism is one of the schools that practice Vajrayana or ""Diamond Vehicle"" "	What type of Buddhism is Tibeto-Mongolian based on?
Historically, the roots of Buddhism lie in the religious thought of ancient India during the second half of the first millennium BCE	What time period was the beginning of Buddhism?
Buddhism arose in Greater Magadha, which stretched from Sravasti, the capital of Kosala in the north-west, to Rajagrha in the south east	Buddhism arose in what area?
in the Upanishads	Movements were influenced by philosophical thought within the Vedic tradition such as what?
A particular criticism of the Buddha was Vedic animal sacrifice	A criticism the Buddha gave dealing with animals was?
 The reliability of these sources, and the possibility to draw out a core of oldest teachings, is a matter of dispute	What is in dispute regarding the research into the core of the teachings?
A core problem in the study of early Buddhism is the relation between dhyana and insight	A large problem in the study of early Buddhism is the relationship of dhyana and what else?
Schmithausen is a notable scholar who has questioned whether karma already played a role in the theory of rebirth of earliest Buddhism	According the Bronkhorst, intentions and desire are responsible for what?
"Bronkhorst agrees that dhyana was a Buddhist invention, whereas Norman notes that ""the Buddha's way to release ["	What was the earliest Buddhism type?
According to the Mahāsaccakasutta, from the fourth jhana the Buddha gained bodhi	From which jhana did Buddha gain bodhi?
"Although ""Nibbāna"" is the common term for the desired goal of this practice, many other terms can be found throughout the Nikayas, which are not specified"	What is the Sanskrit form of Nibbana?
"According to Vetter, the description of the Buddhist path may initially have been as simple as the term ""the middle way"""	A description of the Buddhist path may have been as simplistic as what term?
"According to both Bronkhorst and Anderson, the four truths became a substitution for prajna, or ""liberating insight"", in the suttas in those texts where ""liberating insight"" was preceded by the four jhanas"	Authors Bronkhorst and Anderson claim the four truths bacame a substitution for what?
The three marks of existence may reflect Upanishadic or other influences	How many marks of existence reflect Upanishadic influences?
The history of Indian Buddhism may be divided into five periods: Early Buddhism , Nikaya Buddhism or Sectarian Buddhism: The period of the Early Buddhist schools, Early Mahayana Buddhism, Later Mahayana Buddhism, and Esoteric Buddhism 	The periods of Buddhisma in India is divided into how many periods?
Pre-sectarian Buddhism is the earliest phase of Buddhism, recognized by nearly all scholars	Was is the earliest phase of buddhism?
According to the scriptures, soon after the parinirvāṇa of Gautama Buddha, the first Buddhist council was held	Soon after the parinirvana of Gautama Buddha, what type of council was held?
According to most scholars, at some period after the Second Council the Sangha began to break into separate factions	The Sangha began to break into separte factions after what council?
This contradicts the Mahasanghikas' own vinaya, which shows them as on the same, winning side	The major schism was between the Sthaviras and what other group?
The Sthaviras gave rise to several schools, one of which was the Theravāda school	Who gave rise to the Theravada school?
Following the schisms, each Saṅgha started to accumulate an Abhidharma, a detailed scholastic reworking of doctrinal material appearing in the Suttas, according to schematic classifications	What is a detailed scholastic reworking of doctrinal material called?
Several scholars have suggested that the Prajñāpāramitā sūtras, which are among the earliest Mahāyāna sūtras, developed among the Mahāsāṃghika along the Kṛṣṇa River in the Āndhra region of South India	Which sutras are among the earliest Mahayana sutras?
The earliest Mahāyāna sūtras to include the very first versions of the Prajñāpāramitā genre, along with texts concerning Akṣobhya Buddha, which were probably written down in the 1st century BCE in the south of India	The earliest Mahayana sutra include the very first version of what genre?
""" They note that the ancient Buddhist sites in the lower Kṛṣṇa Valley, including Amaravati, Nāgārjunakoṇḍā and Jaggayyapeṭa ""can be traced to at least the third century BCE, if not earlier"	The ancient buddhist site in the lower Krsna Valley can be traced to at least what century BCE?
There is no evidence that Mahāyāna ever referred to a separate formal school or sect of Buddhism, but rather that it existed as a certain set of ideals, and later doctrines, for bodhisattvas	There is no evidence that Mahayana ever referred to a separate school of what?
Much of the early extant evidence for the origins of Mahāyāna comes from early Chinese translations of Mahāyāna texts	Most of the early extant evidence for the origins of Mhayana comes from what type of translations?
During the period of Late Mahayana Buddhism, four major types of thought developed: Madhyamaka, Yogacara, Tathagatagarbha, and Buddhist Logic as the last and most recent	What four types of thought developed during the period of late mahayna buddhism?
Buddhism may have spread only slowly in India until the time of the Mauryan emperor Ashoka, who was a public supporter of the religion	Buddhism may have spread quickly because of what Mauryan emperor?
According to the edicts of Aśoka, emissaries were sent to various countries west of India to spread Buddhism , particularly in eastern provinces of the neighboring Seleucid Empire, and even farther to Hellenistic kingdoms of the Mediterranean	Emissaries were sent to various countries to what direct from India?
During this period Buddhism was exposed to a variety of influences, from Persian and Greek civilization, to changing trends in non-Buddhist Indian religions—themselves influenced by Buddhism	The gradual spread of Buddhism exposed it to a variety of influences including what civilization?
The Theravada school spread south from India in the 3rd century BCE, to Sri Lanka and Thailand and Burma and later also Indonesia	The Theravada school spread south from india in what century BCE?
 The first documented translation efforts by foreign Buddhist monks in China were in the 2nd century CE, probably as a consequence of the expansion of the Kushan Empire into the Chinese territory of the Tarim Basin	When was the first documented translation efforts by foreign Buddhist monks in China?
In the 2nd century CE, Mahayana Sutras spread to China, and then to Korea and Japan, and were translated into Chinese	Mahayana Sutras spread to China during what century?
China and India are now starting to fund Buddhist shrines in various Asian countries as they compete for influence in the region	China and India are now starting to fund what type of shrines in various Asian countries?
Formal membership varies between communities, but basic lay adherence is often defined in terms of a traditional formula in which the practitioner takes refuge in The Three Jewels: the Buddha, the Dharma , and the Sangha 	What is the Dharma?
A number of modern movements or tendencies in Buddhism emerged during the second half of the 20th Century, including the Dalit Buddhist movement , Engaged Buddhism, and the further development of various Western Buddhist traditions	When did a number of modern movement in Buddhism emerge?
In the second half of the 20th Century a modern movement in Nichiren Buddhism: Soka Gakkai emerged in Japan and spread further to other countries	What Buddhism emerged in the second half of the 20th century in Japan?
Buddhism is practiced by an estimated 488 million, 495 million, or 535 million people as of the 2010s, representing 7% to 8% of the world's total population	What religion is practiced by an estimated 488 to 535 million people?
China is the country with the largest population of Buddhists, approximately 244 million or 18	What country has the largest population of Buddhists?
According to a demographic analysis reported by Peter Harvey : Mahayana has 360 million adherents; Theravada has 150 million adherents; and Vajrayana has 18,2 million adherents	How may adherents does Mahayana have?
According to Johnson and Grim , Buddhism has grown from a total of 138 million adherents in 1910, of which 137 million were in Asia, to 495 million in 2010, of which 487 million are in Asia	How many Buddhists were there in 1910?
Hinayana is used by Mahayana followers to name the family of early philosophical schools and traditions from which contemporary Theravada emerged, but as this term is rooted in the Mahayana viewpoint and can be considered derogatory, a variety of other terms are increasingly used instead, including Śrāvakayāna, Nikaya Buddhism, early Buddhist schools, sectarian Buddhism, conservative Buddhism, mainstream Buddhism and non-Mahayana Buddhism	What does Hinayana mean in English?
Not all traditions of Buddhism share the same philosophical outlook, or treat the same concepts as central	Each tradition has its own core what?
Theravada is the oldest surviving Buddhist school	What is the oldest surviving Buddhist school?
It has a growing presence in the west	Where is there a growing presence of Theravada?
Theravadin Buddhists believe that personal effort is required to realize rebirth	What type of Buddhists believe that personal effort is required to realize rebirth?
Mahāyāna centres of learning were established, the most important one being the Nālandā University in north-eastern India	What was the most important Mahayana centre of learning?
Mahayana schools recognize all or part of the Mahayana Sutras	Mahayana schools recognize all or part of what?
Native Mahayana Buddhism is practiced today in China, Japan, Korea, Singapore, parts of Russia and most of Vietnam 	Native Mahayana buddhism is also called what?
Various classes of Vajrayana literature developed as a result of royal courts sponsoring both Buddhism and Saivism	The royal courts sponsored both Buddhism and what?
Buddhist scriptures and other texts exist in great variety	There is a great variety of what type of scripture?
Unlike many religions, Buddhism has no single central text that is universally referred to by all traditions	Unlike most religions, Buddhism has no single central what?
Later in Sri Lanka, the Dhammapada was championed as a unifying scripture	In Sri Lanka, what was determined to be the best unifying scripture?
Dwight Goddard collected a sample of Buddhist scriptures, with the emphasis on Zen, along with other classics of Eastern philosophy, such as the Tao Te Ching, into his 'Buddhist Bible' in the 1920s	Goddard collected mainly what type of Buddhist scripture?
"The Pāli Tipitaka, which means ""three baskets"", refers to the Vinaya Pitaka, the Sutta Pitaka, and the Abhidhamma Pitaka"	"What means ""three baskets""?"
The Pāli Tipitaka is the only early Tipitaka to survive intact in its original language, but a number of early schools had their own recensions of the Tipitaka featuring much of the same material	What is the only Tipitaka to survive intact in its original language?
According to the scriptures, soon after the death of the Buddha, the first Buddhist council was held; a monk named Mahākāśyapa presided	Which monk presided after the death of the Buddha?
"Much of the material in the Canon is not specifically ""Theravadin"", but is instead the collection of teachings that this school preserved from the early, non-sectarian body of teachings"	Much of the material in the Canon is not specifically what?
The Mahayana sutras are a very broad genre of Buddhist scriptures that the Mahayana Buddhist tradition holds are original teachings of the Buddha	What are considered the original teachings of the Buddha?
The Mahayana sutras often claim to articulate the Buddha's deeper, more advanced doctrines, reserved for those who follow the bodhisattva path	What sutras are reserved for those who follow the bodhisattva path?
According to Mahayana tradition, the Mahayana sutras were transmitted in secret, came from other Buddhas or Bodhisattvas, or were preserved in non-human worlds because human beings at the time could not understand them:	What sutras were transmitted in secret?
Approximately six hundred Mahayana sutras have survived in Sanskrit or in Chinese or Tibetan translations	How many Mahayana sutras have survivied in Sanskrit or in Chinese or Tibetan translations?
"It was not until after the 5th century CE that the Mahayana sutras started to influence the behavior of mainstream Buddhists in India: ""But outside of texts, at least in India, at exactly the same period, very different—in fact seemingly older—ideas and aspirations appear to be motivating actual behavior, and old and established Hinnayana groups appear to be the only ones that are patronized and supported"	When did Mahayana sutras start to influence the behavior of mainstream buddhists in India?
Only the Theravada school does not include the Mahayana scriptures in its canon	What school does not include the Mahayava scriptures in its canon?
"Jonathan Silk has argued that the term ""Hinayana"" was used to refer to whomever one wanted to criticize on any given occasion, and did not refer to any definite grouping of Buddhists"	The mahayana occasionally referred to early Buddhism as what?
Buddhism provides many opportunities for comparative study with a diverse range of subjects	What provides chances for comparative study with a large range of subjects?
There are differences of opinion on the question of whether or not Buddhism should be considered a religion	What school of thought is questioned on whether or not it is a religion?
American Idol is an American singing competition series created by Simon Fuller and produced by 19 Entertainment, and is distributed by FremantleMedia North America	Who is the creator of American Idol?
The original judges were record producer and music manager Randy Jackson, pop singer and choreographer Paula Abdul and music executive and manager Simon Cowell	What record producer was an original judge on American Idol?
"According to Billboard magazine, in its first ten years, ""Idol has spawned 345 Billboard chart-toppers and a platoon of pop idols, including Kelly Clarkson, Carrie Underwood, Chris Daughtry, Fantasia, Ruben Studdard, Jennifer Hudson, Clay Aiken, Adam Lambert and Jordin Sparks while remaining a TV ratings juggernaut"	How many Billboard hits did American Idol produce in its first ten years?
The popularity of American Idol however declined, and on May 11, 2015, Fox announced that the series would conclude its run in its fifteenth season	What year did FOX announce that American Idol was cancelled?
American Idol was based on the British show Pop Idol created by Simon Fuller, which was in turn inspired by the New Zealand television singing competition Popstars	What show in New Zealand was the inspiration for the British Series Pop Idol?
, a position it then held on for seven consecutive seasons	For how many seasons was American Idol the most watched show in the US?
The show decided to continue with the three judges format until season eight	For how many seasons were the three original judges on American Idol?
In season eight, Latin Grammy Award-nominated singer–songwriter and record producer Kara DioGuardi was added as a fourth judge	Who was added as a fourth judge in the eighth season of American Idol?
In season two, guest judges such as Lionel Richie and Robin Gibb were used, and in season three Donna Summer, Quentin Tarantino and some of the mentors also joined as judges to critique the performances in the final rounds	In what season was Lionel Richie a guest judge on American Idol?
The first season was co-hosted by Ryan Seacrest and Brian Dunkleman	Who was the only host of American Idol after season one?
Jimmy Iovine was the mentor in the tenth through twelfth seasons, former judge Randy Jackson was the mentor for the thirteenth season and Scott Borchetta was the mentor for the fourteenth and fifteenth season	Who was a mentor to the contestants on American Idol in its thirteenth season? 
The eligible age-range for contestants is currently fifteen to twenty-eight years old	What is the upper age limit for contestants on American Idol?
Contestants go through at least three sets of cuts	How many auditions are there before contestants audition for the judges?
In season seven, the group round was eliminated and contestants may, after a first solo performance and on judges approval, skip a second solo round and move directly to the final Hollywood round	Which season did not have a group round in Hollywood?
In seasons ten and eleven, a further round was added in Las Vegas, where the contestants perform in groups based on a theme, followed by one final solo round to determine the semi-finalists	In what city did contestants perform an additional round in seasons ten and eleven?
The number of text messages rapidly increased, reaching 178 million texts by season eight	How many text message votes were there in season eight?
In season one, there were three groups of ten, with the top three contestants from each group making the finals	How many finalists were there on the first season of American Idol?
From seasons four to seven and nine, the twenty-four semi-finalists were divided by gender in order to ensure an equal gender division in the top twelve	How many semi-finalists were there in season 4?
The wildcard round returned in season eight, wherein there were three groups of twelve, with three contestants moving forward – the highest male, the highest female, and the next highest-placed singer - for each night, and four wildcards were chosen by the judges to produce a final 13	How many wildcards were chosen by the judges in season eight?
The finals are broadcast in prime time from CBS Television City in Los Angeles, in front of a live studio audience	Where studio hosts the live final rounds on American Idol?
"Moreover, starting in season eight, the judges may overturn viewers' decision with a ""Judges' Save"" if they unanimously agree to"	"In what season was the ""Judges Save"" introduced to give contestants a second chance?"
"The ""Fan Save"" was introduced in the fourteenth season"	"In which season was the ""Fan Save"" first used?"
In seasons seven through thirteen, the venue was at the Nokia Theatre, which holds an audience of over 7,000	What venue was the American Idol season seven finale held at?
The winner receives a record deal with a major label, which may be for up to six albums, and secures a management contract with American Idol-affiliated 19 Management , as well as various lucrative contracts	Which company manages the winners of American Idol?
Each successful contestant receives a golden ticket to proceed on to the next round in Hollywood	What is given to contestants who make it past the audition round?
Starting with season seven, contestants may perform with a musical instrument from the Hollywood rounds onwards	In which season were contestants first allowed to use musical instruments?
The first season of American Idol debuted as a summer replacement show in June 2002 on the Fox network	What network aired the first season of American Idol?
In the audition rounds, 121 contestants were selected from around 10,000 who attended the auditions	How many contestants made it past the first round of auditions?
"Clarkson was not initially thought of as a contender, but impressed the judges with some good performances in the final rounds, such as her performance of Aretha Franklin's ""Natural Woman"", and Betty Hutton's ""Stuff Like That There"", and eventually won the crown on September 4, 2002"	What year did Kelly Clarkson win?
"The single, ""A Moment Like This"", went on to break a 38-year-old record held by The Beatles for the biggest leap to number one on the Billboard Hot 100"	What was the fist song released by Kelly Clarkson after winning American Idol?
Following the success of season one, the second season was moved up to air in January 2003	What year did season two of American Idol first air?
Corey Clark was disqualified during the finals for having an undisclosed police record; however, he later alleged that he and Paula Abdul had an affair while on the show and that this contributed to his expulsion	Which judge did Corey Clark claim to have had an affair with?
Ruben Studdard emerged as the winner, beating Clay Aiken by a small margin	Who was the season two winner of American Idol?
"Both finalists found success after the show, but Aiken out-performed Studdard's coronation song ""Flying Without Wings"" with his single release from the show ""This Is the Night"", as well as in their subsequent album releases"	What is the first song that Ruben Studdard released after winning American Idol?
Season three premiered on January 19, 2004	What year did the third season of American Idol first air?
Much media attention on the season had been focused on the three black singers, Fantasia Barrino, LaToya London, and Jennifer Hudson, dubbed the Three Divas	What were the three black female contestants on season three of American Idol commonly referred to as?
Fantasia and Diana DeGarmo were the last two finalists, and Fantasia was crowned as the winner	Who was the runner up on the third season of American Idol?
The top 12 finalists originally included Mario Vazquez, but he dropped out citing 'personal reasons' and was replaced by Nikko Smith	Who got a spot in the top 12 after Mario Vasquez dropped out?
During the top 11 week, due to a mix-up with the contestants' telephone number, voting was repeated on what was normally the result night, with the result reveal postponed until the following night	During what week was there a problem with voting?
In May 2005, Carrie Underwood was announced the winner, with Bice the runner-up	What year did Carrie Underwood win American Idol?
Season five began on January 17, 2006	Which season of American Idol stands out for having the highest ratings?
"Chris Daughtry's performance of Fuel's ""Hemorrhage "" on the show was widely praised and led to an invitation to join the band as Fuel's new lead singer, an invitation he declined"	Which contestant did the band Fuel ask to be their new lead singer?
On May 30, 2006, Taylor Hicks was named American Idol, with Katharine McPhee the runner-up	Who was the winner American Idol in 2006?
Despite being eliminated earlier in the season, Chris Daughtry became the most successful recording artist from this season	Which season five contestant has had the most success after the show?
Season six began on Tuesday, January 16, 2007	What year did the sixth season of American Idol first air?
Teenager Sanjaya Malakar was the season's most talked-about contestant for his unusual hairdo, and for managing to survive elimination for many weeks due in part to the weblog Vote for the Worst and satellite radio personality Howard Stern, who both encouraged fans to vote for him	Who was the most discussed singer in American Idols sixth season?
This season saw the first Idol Gives Back telethon-inspired event, which raised more than $76 million in corporate and viewer donations	What was the name of the charity event on season six of American Idol?
In the May 23 season finale, Jordin Sparks was declared the winner with the runner-up being Blake Lewis	Who was the winner of American Idols sixth season?
Season four premiered on January 18, 2005; this was the first season of the series to be aired in high definition, although the finale of season three was also aired in high definition	What year did season four of American Idol first air?
"The winning song, ""This Is My Now"", was performed by both finalists during the finale and released by Sparks on May 24, 2007"	In what year did American Idol begin a contest to decide the winners single?
Season seven premiered on January 15, 2008, for a two-day, four-hour premiere	What year did season seven of American Idol first air?
"David Cook's performance of ""Billie Jean"" on top-ten night was lauded by the judges, but provoked controversy when they apparently mistook the Chris Cornell arrangement to be David Cook's own even though the performance was introduced as Cornell's version"	What song did David Cook sing on American Idol during the week of the top ten?
"David Archuleta's performance of John Lennon's ""Imagine"" was considered by many as one of the best of the season"	"Which contestant sang ""Imagine"" on season seven of American Idol?"
David Cook was announced the winner on May 21, 2008, the first rocker to win the show	Who won season seven of American Idol?
"The winning song, ""The Time of My Life"", was recorded by David Cook and released on May 22, 2008"	What was the name of the first song released by David Cook after winning American Idol?
Season eight premiered on January 13, 2009	What year did the eighth season of American Idol first air?
In the first major change to the judging panel, a fourth judge, Kara DioGuardi, was introduced	Who was brought in as a new judge during American Idols eighth season?
There were 13 finalists this season, but two were eliminated in the first result show of the finals	How many finalists were there on season eight of American Idol?
The two finalists were Kris Allen and Adam Lambert, both of whom had previously landed in the bottom three at the top five	Who were the final two contestants on season eight of American Idol?
"Both Allen and Lambert released the coronation song, ""No Boundaries"" which was co-written by DioGuardi"	What was the name of the song that Kris Allen and Adam Lamber released after American Idol?
Season nine premiered on January 12, 2010	What year did season nine of American Idol first air?
Crystal Bowersox, who has Type-I diabetes, fell ill due to diabetic ketoacidosis on the morning of the girls performance night for the top 20 week and was hospitalized	Which contestant had to go to the hospital during the week of the top 20?
Michael Lynche was the lowest vote getter at top nine and was given the Judges' Save	Which contestant was saved by the judges in season nine of American Idol?
A special tribute to Simon Cowell was presented in the finale for his final season with the show	Who had their final season in the show in season nine?
The final two contestants were Lee DeWyze and Bowersox	Who was the winner of American Idols ninth season?
Season ten of the series premiered on January 19, 2011	What year did season ten of American Idol first air?
Season ten is the first to include online auditions where contestants could submit a 40-second video audition via Myspace	What was the first season of American Idol to feature online auditions?
One of the more prominent contestants this year was Chris Medina, whose story of caring for his brain-damaged fiancée received widespread coverage	Which contestant had a fiancé that had suffered brain damage?
Pia Toscano, one of the presumed favorites to advance far in the season, was unexpectedly eliminated on April 7, 2011, finishing in ninth place	What contestant came in ninth on season ten of American Idol?
The two finalists in 2011 were Lauren Alaina and Scotty McCreery, both teenage country singers	What genre of music did season ten American Idol contestant Lauren Alaina sing?
Season 11 premiered on January 18, 2012	In what year did American Idol first air its eleventh season?
Finalist Phillip Phillips suffered from kidney pain and was taken to the hospital before the Top 13 results show, and later received medical procedure to alleviate a blockage caused by kidney stones	Which season 11 contestant had to go to the hospital before the Top 13 Results?
"Jessica Sanchez received the fewest number of votes during the Top 7 week, and the judges decided to use their ""save"" option on her, making her the first female recipient of the save"	Which contestant was saved by the judges on season 11 of American Idol?
Prior to the announcement of the winner, season five finalist Ace Young proposed marriage to season three runner-up Diana DeGarmo on stage – which she accepted	What former contestant did Ace Young ask to marry him?
"Phillips released ""Home"" as his coronation song, while Sanchez released ""Change Nothing"""	What is the first song that Phillip Phliips released after winning American Idol?
Season 12 premiered on January 16, 2013	What year did season 12 of American Idol first air?
The top 10 contestants started with five males and five females, however, the males were eliminated consecutively in the first five weeks, with Lazaro Arbos the last male to be eliminated	How many girls were in the top 10 on season 12 of American Idol?
23-year-old Candice Glover won the season with Kree Harrison taking the runner-up spot	Who was the winner of American Idols twelfth season?
Towards the end of the season, Randy Jackson, the last remaining of the original judges, announced that he would no longer serve as a judge to pursue other business ventures	Which long time judge decided to leave his position at the end of the season?
The thirteenth season premiered on January 15, 2014, with Ryan Seacrest returning as host	What year did season 13 of American Idol first air?
In the Top 8, Sam Woolf received the fewest votes, but he was saved from elimination by the judges	Which contestant was saved by the judges after getting the least votes on season 13 of American Idol?
Caleb Johnson was named the winner of the season, with Jena Irene as the runner-up	Who won season 13 of American Idol?
The fourteenth season premiered on January 7, 2015	What year did American Idol first air its fourteenth season?
Changes this season include only airing one episode a week during the final ten	How many episodes did American Idol have each week of the top ten?
Nick Fradiani won the season, defeating Clark Beckham	Who won American Idols fourteenth season?
Fox announced on May 11, 2015 that the fifteenth season would be the final season of American Idol; as such, the season is expected to have an additional focus on the program's alumni	What year did Fox announce the cancellation of American Idol?
5	How many seasons was Jennifer Lopez a judge on American Idol? 
In 2012, an analysis of the 131 contestants who have appeared in the finals of all seasons of the show up to that point found that 48% have some connection to the Southern United States	As of 2012, how many finalists did American Idol have? 
Data from Nielsen SoundScan, a music-sales tracking service, showed that of the 47 million CDs sold by Idol contestants through January 2010, 85 percent were by contestants with ties to the American South	How many CDs from American Idol contestants had been sold at the beginning of 2010? 
"According to season five winner Taylor Hicks, who is from the state of Alabama, ""People in the South have a lot of pride"	Who won season five of American Idol? 
"For five consecutive seasons, starting in season seven, the title was given to a white male who plays the guitar – a trend that Idol pundits call the ""White guy with guitar"" or ""WGWG"" factor"	What does the acronym WGWG stand for? 
The show had been criticized in earlier seasons over the onerous contract contestants had to sign that gave excessive control to 19 Entertainment over their future career, and handed a large part of their future earnings to the management	What company are contestants required to sign a contract with on American Idol?
The mechanism of voting had also aroused considerable criticisms, most notably in season two when Ruben Studdard beat Clay Aiken in a close vote, and in season eight, when the massive increase in text votes fueled the texting controversy	Who won season two of American Idol? 
Idol Gives Back is a special charity event started in season six featuring performances by celebrities and various fund-raising initiatives	What is the name of the special that raises money for charities on American Idol?
American Idol premiered in June 2002 and became the surprise summer hit show of 2002	What year did American Idol being to air on television? 
The finale night when Ruben Studdard won over Clay Aiken was also the highest-rated ever American Idol episode at 38	What contestant won the second season of American Idol? 
Season six premiered with the series' highest-rated debut episode and a few of its succeeding episodes rank among the most watched episodes of American Idol	Which season premier of American Idol was the most watched?
The loss of viewers continued into season seven	During which season of American Idol did Fox beat the other networks in ratings for the first time? 
In season nine, Idol's six-year extended streak of perfection in the ratings was broken, when NBC's coverage of the 2010 Winter Olympics on February 17 beat Idol in the same time slot with 30	Which television network aired the Winter Olympics in 2010? 
For the first time in eight years, American Idol lost the leading position in both the total viewers number and the 18/49 demo, coming in second to NBC Sunday Night Football, although the strengths of Idol in its second year in the Wednesday-Thursday primetime slots helped Fox achieve the longest period of 18-49 demographic victory in the Nielsen ratings, standing at 8 straight years from 2004 to 2012	For how many years was American Idol the top rated show on television? 
The season viewers averaged at 13	During which season did American Idol fall out of the top ten shows in ratings? 
The continuing decline influenced further changes for season 14, including the loss of Coca-Cola as the show's major sponsor, and a decision to only broadcast one, two-hour show per week during the top 12 rounds 	What drink company ended its relationship with American Idol during season 14?
American Idol and fellow competing shows Survivor and Who Wants to Be a Millionaire were altogether credited for expanding reality television programming in the United States in the 1990s and 2000s, and Idol became the most watched non-scripted primetime television series for almost a decade, from 2003 to 2012, breaking records on U	For how many years was American Idol the highest rated reality show on television?
TV network amongst adults 18–49, the key demographic coveted by advertisers, for an unprecedented eight consecutive years by 2012	For how many years was Fox the highest rated network with young adults because of American Idol? 
Its format also served as a blueprint for non-singing TV shows such as Dancing with the Stars and So You Think You Can Dance, most of which contribute to the current highly competitive reality TV landscape on American television	What dancing show featuring celebrities has been helped by American Idol?
television history, American Idol has a strong impact not just on television, but also in the wider world of entertainment	What show helped launched the career of Kelly Clarkson? 
they had achieved 345 number ones on the Billboard charts in its first ten years	How many number one Billboard singles were released by American Idol contestants in the shows first decade? 
As of 2013, the American Idol alumni in their post-Idol careers have amassed over 59 million albums and 120 million singles and digital track downloads in the United States alone	How many albums have been sold by American Idol contestants up until 2013?
Other alumni have gone on to work in television and films, the most notable being Jennifer Hudson who, on the recommendation of the Idol vocal coach Debra Byrd, won a role in Dreamgirls and subsequently received an Academy Award for her performance	Which American Idol contestant won an Oscar for Dreamgirls? 
"Ken Tucker of Entertainment Weekly considered that ""As TV, American Idol is crazily entertaining; as music, it's dust-mote inconsequential"""	What publication does Ken Tucker work for? 
"Some of the later writers about the show were more positive, Michael Slezak, again of Entertainment Weekly, thought that ""for all its bloated, synthetic, product-shilling, money-making trappings, Idol provides a once-a-year chance for the average American to combat the evils of today's music business"	What publication does Michael Slezak write for?
"Elton John, who had appeared as a mentor in the show but turned down an offer to be a judge on American Idol, commenting on talent shows in general, said that ""there have been some good acts but the only way to sustain a career is to pay your dues in small clubs"""	What famous singer declined an offer to be a judge on American Idol after having been a mentor? 
While the industry is divided on the show success, its impact is felt particularly strongly in the country music format	Which music genre has had the most success from American Idol? 
Director Bruce Gower won a Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Directing For A Variety, Music Or Comedy Series in 2009, and the show won a Creative Arts Emmys each in 2007 and 2008, three in 2009, and two in 2011, as well as a Governor's Award in 2007 for its Idol Gives Back edition	How many nominations has American Idol received for Outstanding Reality Competition Program? 
8	How many total Emmy Awards has American Idol won? 
The show was estimated to generate $900 million for the year 2004 through sales of TV ads, albums, merchandise and concert tickets	How much money did American Idol make in 2004?
American Idol became the most expensive series on broadcast networks for advertisers starting season four, and by the next season, it had broken the record in advertising rate for a regularly scheduled prime-time network series, selling over $700,000 for a 30-seconds slot, and reaching up to $1	In which season did American Idol become the costliest show for advertising on television? 
The sponsorship deal cost around $10 million in season one, rising to $35 million by season 7, and between $50 to $60 million in season 10	In which season did Coca-Cola become a sponsor of American Idol? 
The branded entertainment integration proved beneficial to its advertisers – promotion of AT&T text-messaging as a means to vote successfully introduced the technology into the wider culture, and Coca-Cola has seen its equity increased during the show	What service did AT&T promote on American Idol as a way of voting? 
Coca-Cola's archrival PepsiCo declined to sponsor American Idol at the show's start	Which major drink manufacturer decided at the beginning of American Idol not to be a sponsor? 
The season five tour was the most successful tour with gross of over $35 million	Which season of American Idol had the highest profit on its tour?
In season seven the live performances and studio recordings were made available during the season from iTunes when it joined as a sponsor	When did iTunes become a sponsor on American Idol? 
19 Recordings, a recording label owned by 19 Entertainment, currently hold the rights to phonographic material recorded by all the contestants	What company has the right to all recordings from contestants on American Idol?
"On February 14, 2009, The Walt Disney Company debuted ""The American Idol Experience"" at its Disney's Hollywood Studios theme park at the Walt Disney World Resort in Florida"	What company has a them park attraction known as The American Idol Experience? 
American Idol is broadcast to over 100 nations outside of the United States	How many different countries air American Idol on television? 
In Italy, the twelfth season was broadcast by La3	What network in Italy aired American Idol in season twelve? 
Individual contestants have generated controversy in this competition for their past actions, or for being 'ringers' planted by the producers	Producers have been accused of planting what within the show?
It holds the distinction of having the longest winning streak in the Nielsen annual television ratings; it became the highest-rated of all television programs in the United States overall for an unprecedented seven consecutive years, or eight consecutive years when either its performance or result show was ranked number one overall	How many consecutive years was American Idol the top rated show?
The domestic dog is a domesticated canid which has been selectively bred for millennia for various behaviors, sensory capabilities, and physical attributes	What is the three word Latin name for domesticated dogs?
Although initially thought to have originated as a manmade variant of an extant canid species , extensive genetic studies undertaken during the 2010s indicate that dogs diverged from an extinct wolf-like canid in Eurasia 40,000 years ago	What decade had significant studies of dog genes to determine origins?
"This impact on human society has given them the nickname ""man's best friend"" in the Western world"	What is the most common phrase, or nickname, used by people in the United States to describe dogs in general?
The term may possibly derive from Proto-Germanic *dukkōn, represented in Old English finger-docce 	"What is the Proto-Germanic word that ""dog"" may have come from?"
In 14th-century England, hound was the general word for all domestic canines, and dog referred to a subtype of hound, a group including the mastiff	What was the common 14th-century word for dogs for those who spoke English?
The father of a litter is called the sire, and the mother is called the dam	What is the male who is father of the pups called?
In 1758, the taxonomist Linnaeus published in Systema Naturae a categorization of species which included the Canis species	"What is the Latin term for ""dog.?"""
In 2003, the ICZN ruled in its Opinion 2027 that if wild animals and their domesticated derivatives are regarded as one species, then the scientific name of that species is the scientific name of the wild animal	What year was it decided that if wolves and dogs were one species, then their scientific name is the name of the wild variety?
Later genetic studies strongly supported dogs and gray wolves forming two sister monophyletic clades within the one species, and that the common ancestor of dogs and extant wolves is extinct	What indicated dogs and gray wolves developed as two monophyletic clades?
These dates imply that the earliest dogs arose in the time of human hunter-gatherers and not agriculturists	Modern dogs likely began when human beings were considered to be what?
Modern dog breeds show more variation in size, appearance, and behavior than any other domestic animal	What species shows more difference in size, looks and actions than any other?
The largest known dog was an English Mastiff which weighed 155	What breed was the largest dog known to have lived?
"The coats of domestic dogs are of two varieties: ""double"" being common with dogs originating from colder climates, made up of a coarse guard hair and a soft down hair, or ""single"", with the topcoat only"	Which coat is more common with dogs living in colder climates?
Domestic dogs often display the remnants of countershading, a common natural camouflage pattern	When a dog has a camouflage pattern on its coat, this is called what?
There are many different shapes for dog tails: straight, straight up, sickle, curled, or cork-screw	What part of a dog can be straight, curly or cork-screwed?
Some breeds of dogs are prone to certain genetic ailments such as elbow and hip dysplasia, blindness, deafness, pulmonic stenosis, cleft palate, and trick knees	What are some dogs prone to?
A number of common human foods and household ingestibles are toxic to dogs, including chocolate solids , onion and garlic , grapes and raisins, macadamia nuts, xylitol, as well as various plants and other potentially ingested materials	Some foods that are okay for people to eat are what to dogs?
the heavier the dog the shorter its lifespan)	Do bigger dogs typically have longer or shorter lives?
The breed with the shortest lifespan is the Dogue de Bordeaux, with a median longevity of about 5	What is the canine breed with shortest median lifespan?
"The dog widely reported to be the longest-lived is ""Bluey"", who died in 1939 and was claimed to be 29"	What is the name of the canine that is reported to have lived the longest?
In domestic dogs, sexual maturity begins to happen around age six to twelve months for both males and females, although this can be delayed until up to two years old for some large breeds	How many times per year do female dogs go into heat?
Dogs bear their litters roughly 58 to 68 days after fertilization, with an average of 63 days, although the length of gestation can vary	How long do female dogs carry before delivering puppies?
Neutering refers to the sterilization of animals, usually by removal of the male's testicles or the female's ovaries and uterus, in order to eliminate the ability to procreate and reduce sex drive	What is it called when an animal is altered to prevent procreation?
Neutering reduces problems caused by hypersexuality, especially in male dogs	Hypersexual behavior in male dogs is diminished by what?
A study with Rico showed that he knew the labels of over 200 different items	What is the name of the dog that could ID over 200 things?
As the oldest domesticated species, with estimates ranging from 9,000–30,000 years BCE, the minds of dogs inevitably have been shaped by millennia of contact with humans	Dogs are estimated to be domesticated as far back as what date range of years on the calendar?
:xii These communication behaviors include eye gaze, facial expression, vocalization, body posture and gustatory communication 	What is gustatory communication include in dogs?
Despite their close genetic relationship and the ability to inter-breed, there are a number of diagnostic features to distinguish the gray wolves from domestic dogs	What kind of features differentiate gray wolves from dogs?
In 2016, a study found that there were only 11 fixed genes that showed variation between wolves and dogs	"How many ""fixed"" genes demonstrate the differences between the wolf and dog?"
The global dog population is estimated at 525 million:225 based on a transparent methodology, as opposed to other estimates where the methodology has not been made available – all dog population estimates are based on regional human population densities and land uses	What is the larger count for numbers of dogs considered to populate the planet?
Although large wild dogs, like wolves, are apex predators, they can be killed in territory disputes with wild animals	Like wolves, big domesticated dogs are considered what type of predator?
Striped hyenas are major predators of village dogs in Turkmenistan, India, and the Caucasus	What is a typical predator of dogs in places such as Turkmenistan?
Despite their descent from wolves and classification as Carnivora, dogs are variously described in scholarly and other writings as carnivores or omnivores	Dogs exhibit carnivore as well as what other type of dietary behavior?
Most breeds of dog are at most a few hundred years old, having been artificially selected for particular morphologies and behaviors by people for specific functional roles	The majority of dog breeds have only been around for how long?
While all dogs are genetically very similar, natural selection and selective breeding have reinforced certain characteristics in certain populations of dogs, giving rise to dog types and dog breeds	Natural selection and what makes certain dogs behave certain ways?
Systematic analyses of the dog genome has revealed only four major types of dogs that can be said to be statistically distinct	A scientific study of dog genetics has shown only how many types of dogs being determinably distinct?
Domestic dogs inherited complex behaviors, such as bite inhibition, from their wolf ancestors, which would have been pack hunters with complex body language	What is one of the complex behaviors pet dogs have gotten from wolves?
The dogs' value to early human hunter-gatherers led to them quickly becoming ubiquitous across world cultures	Dogs had a worth to what type of early humans?
"Dogs may have provided warmth, as referred to in the Australian Aboriginal expression ""three dog night"" , and they would have alerted the camp to the presence of predators or strangers, using their acute hearing to provide an early warning"	What do Australian aborigines call a frigid night? 
The relationship between the presence of a dog and success in the hunt is often mentioned as a primary reason for the domestication of the wolf, and a 2004 study of hunter groups with and without a dog gives quantitative support to the hypothesis that the benefits of cooperative hunting was an important factor in wolf domestication	What type of hunting is it called when humans and dogs hunt together?
Emigrants from Siberia that walked across the Bering land bridge into North America may have had dogs in their company, and one writer suggests that the use of sled dogs may have been critical to the success of the waves that entered North America roughly 12,000 years ago, although the earliest archaeological evidence of dog-like canids in North America dates from about 9,400 years ago	What type of working dog may have been the reason so many humans were able to get into North America 12,000 tears ago?
	A grave from 12,000 BC was found to contain an older person and what else?
The first has been the 'commodification' of the dog, shaping it to conform to human expectations of personality and behaviour	Shaping dogs to what people want is called what?
There are a vast range of commodity forms available to transform a pet dog into an ideal companion	It is easy to turn a canine into the perfect companion because so much of what is available?
The majority of contemporary people with dogs describe their pet as part of the family, although some ambivalence about the relationship is evident in the popular reconceptualization of the dog–human family as a pack	How do most people describe the relationship with their dogs?
Another study of dogs' roles in families showed many dogs have set tasks or routines undertaken as family members, the most common of which was helping with the washing-up by licking the plates in the dishwasher, and bringing in the newspaper from the lawn	A study showed that a task dogs do is bringing in what from the lawn?
The latest study using magnetic resonance imaging to humans and dogs together proved that dogs have same response to voices and use the same parts of the brain as humans to do so	What type of imaging was used to study the relationship between humans and dogs?
"Dogs have lived and worked with humans in so many roles that they have earned the unique nickname, ""man's best friend"", a phrase used in other languages as well"	What nickname have dogs earned for their relationship to humans?
Service dogs such as guide dogs, utility dogs, assistance dogs, hearing dogs, and psychological therapy dogs provide assistance to individuals with physical or mental disabilities	What kind of dogs help people with physical or mental disabilities?
In conformation shows, also referred to as breed shows, a judge familiar with the specific dog breed evaluates individual purebred dogs for conformity with their established breed type as described in the breed standard	What are conformation shows also known as?
Dog meat is consumed in some East Asian countries, including Korea, China, and Vietnam, a practice that dates back to antiquity	Where do some people eat dogs?
The most popular Korean dog dish is gaejang-guk , a spicy stew meant to balance the body's heat during the summer months; followers of the custom claim this is done to ensure good health by balancing one's gi, or vital energy of the body	What is the best known Korean dish made with dog meat?
In the 1980s and 1990s the US averaged 17 fatalities per year, while in the 2000s this has increased to 26	During the 1980s and 1990s, how many people were killed annually because of dog bites?
A Colorado study found bites in children were less severe than bites in adults	According to a Colorado study, dog bites are what in children as compared to adults?
In the United States, cats and dogs are a factor in more than 86,000 falls each year	In addition to dogs, what other animal is responsible for over 86,000 falls every year?
Toxocara canis eggs in dog feces can cause toxocariasis	What is the common name of the species that causes Toxocariasis?
"A 2005 paper states ""recent research has failed to support earlier findings that pet ownership is associated with a reduced risk of cardiovascular disease, a reduced use of general practitioner services, or any psychological or physical benefits on health for community dwelling older people"	What year did a publication come out indicating having a pet does not mean lower risk of heart disease in the elderly?
In addition, people with pet dogs took considerably more physical exercise than those with cats and those without pets	People with dogs get more of what than people with cats or no animals?
Other health benefits are gained from exposure to immune-stimulating microorganisms, which, according to the hygiene hypothesis, can protect against allergies and autoimmune diseases	What do humans get exposed to with pets that may help them not get sick?
The practice of using dogs and other animals as a part of therapy dates back to the late 18th century, when animals were introduced into mental institutions to help socialize patients with mental disorders	Dogs were taken where to help people with mental disorders socialize?
Medical detection dogs are capable of detecting diseases by sniffing a person directly or samples of urine or other specimens	What can trained dogs detect by sniffing a person or a sample of their urine?
In Greek mythology, Cerberus is a three-headed watchdog who guards the gates of Hades	What is the name of the dog with three heads in Greek mythology?
In Hindu mythology, Yama, the god of death owns two watch dogs who have four eyes	What is the name of the god of death?
In Islam, dogs are viewed as unclean because they are viewed as scavengers	How are dogs viewed in Islam?
Jewish law requires Jews to feed dogs before themselves, and make arrangements for feeding them before obtaining them	Jewish law dictates that anyone owning a dog must feed the dog before who?
In Asian countries such as China, Korea, and Japan, dogs are viewed as kind protectors	What country has the dog as part of its 12 animals that represent years?
Hunting scenes were popular in the Middle Ages and the Renaissance	What scenes were popular in art during the Middle Ages?
Dogs are also vulnerable to some of the same health conditions as humans, including diabetes, dental and heart disease, epilepsy, cancer, hypothyroidism, and arthritis	Dogs can have the same health issues as who?
Male French Bulldogs, for instance, are incapable of mounting the female	Which dog is not able to mount a female dog?
These live their lives as scavengers and have never been owned by humans, with one study showing their most common response when approached by strangers was to run away or respond with aggression 	When these feral dogs are approached by a person, they tend to do this 52% of the time?
Wolves, and their dog descendants, would have derived significant benefits from living in human camps—more safety, more reliable food, lesser caloric needs, and more chance to breed	What would wolves have gotten from living with humans?
The cohabitation of dogs and humans would have greatly improved the chances of survival for early human groups, and the domestication of dogs may have been one of the key forces that led to human success	What has likely led to human success?
"Studies suggesting that there are benefits to physical health and psychological wellbeing have been criticised for being poorly controlled, and finding that ""he health of elderly people is related to their health habits and social supports but not to their ownership of, or attachment to, a companion animal"	Studies that people are better off with dogs have been criticized for being what?
"The relay, also called by the organizers as the ""Journey of Harmony"", lasted 129 days and carried the torch 137,000 km – the longest distance of any Olympic torch relay since the tradition was started ahead of the 1936 Summer Olympics"	How many days did people carry the Olympic torch before the 2008 Summer Olympics?
After being lit at the birthplace of the Olympic Games in Olympia, Greece on March 24, the torch traveled to the Panathinaiko Stadium in Athens, and then to Beijing, arriving on March 31	What day was the Olympic torch lit for the 2008 games?
These protests, which ranged from hundreds of people in San Francisco, to effectively none in Pyongyang, forced the path of the torch relay to be changed or shortened on a number of occasions	How many people protested on the San Francisco torch route?
"The attacks on the torch in London and Paris were described as ""despicable"" by the Chinese government, condemning them as ""deliberate disruptions"	Who condemned the various attacks on the torch relay route?
"Prompted by the chaotic torch relays in Western Europe and North America, the president of the International Olympic Committee, Jacques Rogge described the situation as a ""crisis"" for the organization and stated that any athletes displaying Tibetan flags at Olympic venues could be expelled from the games"	Who is the president of the International Olympic Committee?
In June 2008, the Beijing Games' Organizing Committee announced that the planned international torch relay for the Paralympic Games had been cancelled	The international torch relay was canceled for what event in June 2008?
"The Olympic Torch is based on traditional scrolls and uses a traditional Chinese design known as ""Lucky Cloud"""	What is the Chinese design used on the Olympic Torch?
Internationally, the torch and its accompanying party traveled in a chartered Air China Airbus A330 , painted in the red and yellow colors of the Olympic Games	When it was necessary for the Olympic Torch to be on an airplane, which one was used?
The route carried the torch through six continents from March 2008 to May 2008 to August 2008	How many continents did the torch visit?
Greece: On March 24, 2008, the Olympic Flame was ignited at Olympia, Greece, site of the ancient Olympic Games	On what date did the Olympic Flame get lit?
A call to boycott French hypermart Carrefour from May 1 began spreading through mobile text messaging and online chat rooms amongst the Chinese over the weekend from April 12, accusing the company's major shareholder, the LVMH Group, of donating funds to the Dalai Lama	Action was taken to boycott which company?
"In response to the demonstrations, an editorial in the People's Daily urged Chinese people to ""express patriotic enthusiasm calmly and rationally, and express patriotic aspiration in an orderly and legal manner"""	In what publication were Chinese people asked to be orderly and legal because of the protests and demonstrations?
 Kazakhstan: The first torchbearer in Almaty, where the Olympic torch arrived for the first time ever on April 2, was the President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbaev	What virgin site did the torch visit on April 2?
 Turkey: The torch relay leg in Istanbul, held on April 3, started on Sultanahmet Square and finished in Taksim Square	When was the torch in Istanbul?
 Russia: On April 5 the Olympic torch arrived at Saint Petersburg, Russia	When did the torch arrive in Saint Petersburg?
 Great Britain: The torch relay leg held in London, the host city of the 2012 Summer Olympics, on April 6 began at Wembley Stadium, passed through the City of London, and eventually ended at O2 Arena in the eastern part of the city	Which city hosted the 2012 Summer Olympics?
"Of the 80 torch-bearers in London, Sir Steve Redgrave, who started the relay, mentioned to the media that he had received e-mailed pleas to boycott the event and could ""see why they would like to make an issue"" of it"	How many torchbearers took part in the London route?
 France: The torch relay leg in Paris, held on April 7, began on the first level of the Eiffel Tower and finished at the Stade Charléty	When did the torch relay in Paris occur?
The third torchbearer in the Paris leg, Jin Jing, who was disabled and carried the torch on a wheelchair, was assaulted several times by unidentified protestors seemingly from the pro-Tibet independent camp	Which torchbearer was in a wheelchair?
Reporters Without Borders organised several symbolic protests, including scaling the Eiffel Tower to hang a protest banner from it, and hanging an identical banner from the Notre Dame cathedral	Which organization planned several protests?
Several hundred pro-Tibet protesters gathered at the Trocadéro with banners and Tibetan flags, and remained there for a peaceful protest, never approaching the torch relay itself	Where did hundreds of pro-Tibet protesters meet?
"All political parties in Parliament—UMP, Socialists, New Centre, Communists, Democratic Movement and Greens—jointly requested a pause in the National Assembly's session, which was granted, so that MPs could step outside and unfurl a banner which read ""Respect for Human Rights in China"""	What did the political parties request a brief stop in?
French police were criticised for their handling of the events, and notably for confiscating Tibetan flags from demonstrators	What did French police take from demonstrators?
United States of America: The torch relay's North American leg occurred in San Francisco, California on April 9	Where did the torch start it's North American route?
On April 1, 2008, the San Francisco Board of Supervisors approved a resolution addressing human rights concerns when the Beijing Olympic torch arrives in San Francisco on April 9	Who approved a resolution concerning human rights on April 1, 2008?
"On April 7, 2008, two days prior to the actual torch relay, three activists carrying Tibetan flags scaled the suspension cables of the Golden Gate Bridge to unfurl two banners, one saying ""One World, One Dream"	Three protester climbed what to hang two banners on April 7, 2008?
The relay descended into confusion as the first runner in the elaborately planned relay disappeared into a warehouse on a waterfront pier where it stayed for a half-an-hour	Where did the first relay runner disappear to with the torch??
Argentina: The torch relay leg in Buenos Aires, Argentina, held on April 11, began with an artistic show at the Lola Mora amphitheatre in Costanera Sur	When did the Olympic torch relay begin in Buenos Aires?
"""I want to announce that we will not put out the Olympic torch,"" said pro-Tibet activist Jorge Carcavallo"	What is the name of the activist who promised peaceful protests?
"The outreach director of HRTR, Susan Prager, is also the communication director of ""Friends of Falun Gong"", a quasi-government non-profit funded by fmr"	Who was the outreach director of HRTR?
Tanzania: Dar es Salaam was the torch's only stop in Africa, on April 13	Where was the only African destination for the torch?
 Sultanate of Oman: Muscat was the torch's only stop in the Middle East, on April 14	Which Middle East location was the only area the torch visited?
 Pakistan: The Olympic torch reached Islamabad for the first time ever on April 16	When did the torch arrive in Islamabad?
 India: Due to concerns about pro-Tibet protests, the relay through New Delhi on April 17 was cut to just 2	When did the torch visit New Delhi?
Wary of protests, the Indian authorities have decided to shorten the route of the relay in New Delhi, and have given it the security normally associated with Republic Day celebrations, which are considered terrorist targets	The security given to the torch relay in New Delhi is reminiscent of the security of what?
India rejected Chinese demands that the torch route be clear of India's 150,000-strong Tibetan exile community, by which they required a ban on congregation near the curtailed 3 km route	How many people comprised the Tibetan exile community?
"The noted Indian social activist and a retired Indian Police Service officer Kiran Bedi refused to participate saying ""she doesn’t want to run in the event as ‘caged woman’"	Who did not want to participate in the relay as 'caged woman'?
 Thailand: The April 18 relay through Bangkok was the Olympic flame's first visit to Thailand	When did the Olympic torch reach Bangkok?
 Malaysia: The event was held in the capital city, Kuala Lumpur, on April 21	When did the torch visit Malaysia?
Just days before the relay supporters of Falun Gong demonstrated in front of the Chinese embassy in the Malaysian capital	Which supporters protested near the Chinese embassy in Malaysia?
 Indonesia: The Olympic flame reached Jakarta on April 22	When did the Olympic torch visit Jakarta?
 Australia: The event was held in Canberra, Australian Capital Territory on April 24, and covered around 16 km of Canberra's central areas, from Reconciliation Place to Commonwealth Park	When did the torch arrive in Canberra?
Following the events in Olympia, there were reports that China requested permission to deploy People's Liberation Army personnel along the relay route to protect the flame in Canberra	Who did the Chinese want to deploy to Canberra to protect the flame?
Intended torchbearer Lin Hatfield Dodds withdrew from the event, explaining that she wished to express concern about China's human rights record	Who withdrew as a torchbearer because of her concerns about human rights?
"Taking note of the high number of Chinese supporters, Ted Quinlan, head of the Canberra torch relay committee, said: ""We didn't expect this reaction from the Chinese community"	Who was the head of the Canberra torch relay committee?
 Japan: The event was held in Nagano, which hosted the 1998 Winter Olympics, on April 26	Who hosted the 1998 Winter Olympics?
South Korea: The event was held in Seoul, which hosted the 1988 Summer Olympics, on April 27	Where was the torch relay event held in South Korea?
 North Korea: The event was held in Pyongyang on April 28	When did the torch arrive in Pyongyang?
The United Nations Organization and its children's agency UNICEF withdrew their staff, saying that it wasn't sure the event would help its mission of raising awareness of conditions for children and amid concerns that the relay would be used as a propaganda stunt	What is the children's agency of the United Nations Organization?
Vietnam: The event was held in Ho Chi Minh City on April 29	When did the torch arrive in Vietnam?
"Prior to the rally, seven anti-China protestors were arrested in Hanoi after unfurling a banner and shouting ""Boycott the Beijing Olympics"" through a loudhailer at a market"	How many people protesting China were arrested in Hanoi prior to the rally?
Hong Kong: The event was held in Hong Kong on May 2	When did the torch arrive in Hong Kong?
Members of the Hong Kong Alliance in Support of Patriotic Democratic Movements in China, including pro-democracy activist Szeto Wah, waved novelty inflatable plastic Olympic flames, which they said symbolised democracy	What did Hong Kong Alliance in Support of Patriotic Democratic Movements in China members wave to symbolize democracy?
"The Color Orange democracy group, led by Danish sculptor Jens Galschiøt, originally planned to join the Hong Kong Alliance relay and paint the ""Pillar of Shame"", a structure he built in Hong Kong to commemorate the 1989 Tiananmen Square protests"	Which group did Jens Galschiøt lead?
Macao: The event was held in Macau on May 3	When did the torch visit Macao?
A Macau resident was arrested on April 26 for posting a message on cyberctm	Who was arrested on April 26 for posting an online message?
The torch arrived in Sanya, Hainan on May 4 with celebrations attended by International Olympic Committee officials and Chinese big names like Jackie Chan	After its April departure, when did the torch return to China?
Western reporters in Beijing have described Chinese media coverage as partial and censored , whereas Chinese netizens have in turn accused Western media coverage of being biased	The Chinese coverage of torch relay events has been accused by Western reporters as being what?
"In response to pro-Tibet and pro-human rights protests, the Chinese media focused on the more disruptive protesters, referring for example to ""a very small number of 'Tibet independence' secessionists and a handful of so-called human rights-minded NGO activists"" intent on ""disrupting and sabotaging the Beijing Olympic Games"""	What did the Chinese media focus on as far as human rights protesters?
Xinhua and CCTV quoted relay spectators who condemned the protests, to a greater extent than most Western media, but did not quote any alternate viewpoints, providing no coverage of support for the protests by some ordinary citizens in Western countries	Xinhua and CCTV focused on people who what?
"Despite intended torchbearers Kiran Bedi, Soha Ali Khan, Sachin Tendulkar and Bhaichung Bhutia all withdrawing from the event, the official Chinese website for the relay reported ""Indian torchbearers vow to run for spirit of Olympics"", and quoted torchbearers Manavjit Singh Sandhu, Abhinav Bindra, Ayaan Ali Khan and Rajinder Singh Rahelu all stating that sports and politics should not be mixed"	Though several torchbearers withdrew from the torch relay, the official website for China stated that Indian torch participants vowed to run for what?
"The Daily Telegraph published an opinion piece by the Chinese ambassador to the United Kingdom, Fu Ying, who accused Western media of ""demonising"" China during their coverage of the torch relays"	Which United Kingdom newspaper published a Chinese ambassador's opinion that Western media had demonized China with torch coverage?
"-based Cable News Network """	 Who did Xinhua accuse of biased reporting on April 17?
"Several days earlier, the BBC had published an article entitled ""The challenges of reporting in China"", responding to earlier criticism"	What article did BBC put out about China just days earlier?
"On April 20, the People's Daily published a report entitled ""Overseas Chinese rally against biased media coverage, for Olympics"""	"Who published ""Overseas Chinese rally against biased media coverage"" on April 20?"
On April 4, it was reported that the Chinese government appeared to be running an anti-CNN website that criticizes the cable network’s coverage of recent events	What was the Chinese government reported running on April 4?
The Beijing Olympic Organizing Committee sent out a team of 30 unarmed attendants selected from the People's Armed Police to escort the flame throughout its journey	How many attendants accompanied the flame during it's travels?
In China, a call to boycott French hypermart Carrefour from May 1 began spreading through mobile text messaging and online chat rooms amongst the Chinese over the weekend from April 12, accusing the company's major shareholder, the LVMH Group, of donating funds to the Dalai Lama	Which French company was boycotted?
In response to the demonstrations, the Chinese government attempted to calm the situation, possibly fearing the protests may spiral out of control as has happened in recent years, including the anti-Japanese protests in 2005	The Chinese government tried to tamper the boycott, trying to avoid a similar outcome to which protests in 2005?
"In Japan, the Mayor of Nagano, Shoichi Washizawa said that it has become a ""great nuisance"" for the city to host the torch relay prior to the Nagano leg"	Who was the mayor of Nagano?
When the Torch is extinguished at night, on airplanes, in bad weather, or during protests , the Olympic Flame is kept alight in a set of 8 lanterns	The torch is put out at night, on aircraft, during storms and what else?
Hong Kong legislator Michael Mak Kwok-fung and activist Chan Cheong, both members of the League of Social Democrats, were not allowed to enter Macau	Who was Michael Mak Kwok-fung?
"Chinese media have also reported on Jin Jing, whom the official Chinese torch relay website described as ""heroic"" and an ""angel"", whereas Western media initially gave her little mention – despite a Chinese claim that ""Chinese Paralympic athlete Jin Jing has garnered much attention from the media"""	Which athlete did the official website call an angel?
Two additional teams of 40 attendants each will accompany the flame on its Mainland China route	How many additional teams will help with the Mainland China route?
In modern molecular biology and genetics, the genome is the genetic material of an organism	In what fields of science is the genome studied?
The term was created in 1920 by Hans Winkler, professor of botany at the University of Hamburg, Germany	Who coined the word genome?
In classical genetics, in a sexually reproducing organism the gamete has half the number of chromosomes of the somatic cell and the genome is a full set of chromosomes in a diploid cell	A gamate has how many chromosomes relative to a somatic cell?
 The study of the global properties of genomes of related organisms is usually referred to as genomics, which distinguishes it from genetics which generally studies the properties of single genes or groups of genes	What is the science that deals with the common genetic characteristics of related organisms called?
Both the number of base pairs and the number of genes vary widely from one species to another, and there is only a rough correlation between the two 	What is the relation between the number of base pairs and total complement of genes in a species called?
In 1976, Walter Fiers at the University of Ghent was the first to establish the complete nucleotide sequence of a viral RNA-genome 	Who was the first person to sequence a viral genome?
The US National Institutes of Health maintains one of several comprehensive databases of genomic information	Which U.S. government agency keeps a large amount of information on genomes?
New sequencing technologies, such as massive parallel sequencing have also opened up the prospect of personal genome sequencing as a diagnostic tool, as pioneered by Manteia Predictive Medicine	What is a recent development in sequencing methods?
Whereas a genome sequence lists the order of every DNA base in a genome, a genome map identifies the landmarks	What is the term for something that lists the important and notable parts of a genome?
Genome composition is used to describe the make up of contents of a haploid genome, which should include genome size, proportions of non-repetitive DNA and repetitive DNA in details	What is the term that accounts for the constituents of the haploid genome?
When talking about genome composition, one should distinguish between prokaryotes and eukaryotes as the big differences on contents structure they have	What two types of organisms have remarkable differences in their genomic composition?
W	How much of the genome is non-repetitive DNA in eukaryotes?
"In some contexts, such as sequencing the genome of a pathogenic microbe, ""genome"" is meant to include information stored on this auxiliary material, which is carried in plasmids"	What is an example of an organism that has a portion of its genetic material outside of its chromosomes?
"In eukaryotes such as plants, protozoa and animals, however, ""genome"" carries the typical connotation of only information on chromosomal DNA"	What are examples of classes of eukaryotes where genome only refers to the information found in chromosomes?
Genome size is the total number of DNA base pairs in one copy of a haploid genome	What is the name for the count of all DNA base pairs in a single haploid genome?
There is experimental work being done on minimal genomes for single cell organisms as well as minimal genomes for multi-cellular organisms 	What is a name for the reduced complement of genetic material necessary for an organism to live?
Protein-coding genes and RNA-coding genes are generally non-repetitive DNA	What are two types of non-repetitive DNA?
In some plants and amphibians, the proportion of non-repetitive DNA is no more than 20%, becoming a minority component	What is the percentage of non-repetitive DNA in some plant and amphibian genomes?
There are two categories of repetitive DNA in genome: tandem repeats and interspersed repeats	What are two types of repetitive DNA found in genomes?
Tandem repeats are usually caused by slippage during replication, unequal crossing-over and gene conversion, satellite DNA and microsatellites are forms of tandem repeats in the genome	Unequal crossing over can create what type of repetitive DNA?
Transposable elements are able to integrate into the genome at another site within the cell	What is the main source of interspersed repeats?
Retrotransposons can be transcribed into RNA, which are then duplicated at another site into the genome	What kind of genetic material can be produced from retrotransposons?
"DNA transposons generally move by ""cut and paste"" in the genome, but duplication has also been observed"	What is a term that can describe how DNA transposons move?
Researchers compare traits such as chromosome number , genome size, gene order, codon usage bias, and GC-content to determine what mechanisms could have produced the great variety of genomes that exist today 	What is another word for the total count of chromosomes?
R	What is another word for gene order?
Duplications play a major role in shaping the genome	What type of generation of genetic material has a big part in making the genome what it is?
Horizontal gene transfer is invoked to explain how there is often extreme similarity between small portions of the genomes of two organisms that are otherwise very distantly related	What is an explanation for the resemblance between disparate parts of the genome?
A comprehensive school is a state school that does not select its intake on the basis of academic achievement or aptitude	What kind of school does not base its admissions on academic merit?
A consequence of that is a wider ranging curriculum, including practical subjects such as design and technology and vocational learning, which were less common or non-existent in grammar schools	What are some areas of learning in comprehensive schools that were not found often in grammar schools?
Although comprehensive schools were introduced to England and Wales in 1965, there are 164 selective grammar schools that are still in operation	How many selective grammar schools are still currently functioning in England and Wales?
"In principle, comprehensive schools were conceived as ""neighbourhood"" schools for all students in a specified catchment area"	What is a word that can be used to describe the scope of a comprehensive school's intake?
Finland has used comprehensive schools since the 1970s, in the sense that everyone is expected to complete the nine grades of peruskoulu, from the age 7 to 16	In what decade did Finland begin employing comprehensive schools?
Germany has a comprehensive school known as the Gesamtschule	What type of school is the Gesamtschule?
In the State of Brandenburg more than 50% of all students attended a Gesamtschule in 2007, while in the State of Bavaria less than 1% did	What percentage of Brandenburg students went to a Gesamtschule in 2007?
Starting in 2010/2011, Hauptschulen were merged with Realschulen and Gesamtschulen to form a new type of comprehensive school in the German States of Berlin and Hamburg, called Stadtteilschule in Hamburg and Sekundarschule in Berlin 	What was the combination of Hauptschulen with Realschulen and Gesamtschulen called in Hamburg?
"The ""Mittelschule"" is a school in some States of Germany that offers regular classes and remedial classes but no college preparatory classes"	What kind of classes are not offered in Mittelschule?
"Comprehensive schools have been accused of grade inflation after a study revealed that Gymnasium senior students of average mathematical ability found themselves at the very bottom of their class and had an average grade of ""Five"", which means ""Failed"""	What type of misconduct have comprehensive schools been alleged of engaging in?
Gesamtschulen might put bright working class students at risk according to several studies	Who could be made vulnerable by the Gasemtschulen?
According to a study done by Helmut Fend revealed that comprehensive schools do not help working class students	Who conducted a study on comprehensive schools?
Gibraltar opened its first comprehensive school in 1972	When was the first comprehensive school opened in Gibraltar?
Comprehensive schools were introduced into Ireland in 1966 by an initiative by Patrick Hillery, Minister for Education, to give a broader range of education compared to that of the vocational school system, which was then the only system of schools completely controlled by the state	When did Ireland first open comprehensive schools?
In Ireland comprehensive schools were an earlier model of state schools, introduced in the late 1960s and largely replaced by the secular community model of the 1970s	In what decade were community schools conceived?
The introduction of the community school model in the 1970s controversially removed the denominational basis of the schools, but religious interests were invited to be represented on the Boards of Management	What did the community school system remove from the comprehensive school model?
In 1946, for example, Walworth School was one of five 'experimental' comprehensive schools set up by the London County Council Another early comprehensive school was Holyhead County School in Anglesey in 1949	In what year was the Walworth School established?
The largest expansion of comprehensive schools in 1965 resulted from a policy decision taken in 1965 by Anthony Crosland, Secretary of State for Education in the 1964–1970 Labour government	Who was responsible for the proliferation of comprehensive schools in 1965?
In 1970 Margaret Thatcher became Secretary of State for Education of the new Conservative government	Who was made Secretary of State for Education in 1970?
By 1975 the majority of local authorities in England and Wales had abandoned the 11-plus examination and moved to a comprehensive system	By what year did the 11-plus exam mainly fall out of use?
In 1976 the future Labour prime minister James Callaghan launched what became known as the 'great debate' on the education system	Who initiated the scrutiny of the educational system in 1976?
Since the 1988 Education Reform Act, parents have a right to choose which school their child should go to or whether to not send them to school at all and to home educate them instead	What law enables parents full control over their child's education?
Scotland has a very different educational system from England and Wales, though also based on comprehensive education	All public primary and secondary schools in Scotland are of what type?
Education in Northern Ireland differs slightly from systems used elsewhere in the United Kingdom, but it is more similar to that used in England and Wales than it is to Scotland	Which country is Northern England's school system most different from?
There is some controversy about comprehensive schools	What isn't some controversy about?
The Republic of the Congo , also known as Congo, Congo Republic, West Congo, or Congo-Brazzaville, is a country located in Central Africa	What is the French term for the Republic of the Congo?
The region was dominated by Bantu-speaking tribes, who built trade links leading into the Congo River basin	What language was spoken in the area that became the Congo?
The political stability and development of hydrocarbon production made Republic of Congo the fourth largest oil producer in the Gulf of Guinea and provided the country with a relative prosperity despite the poor state of its infrastructure and public services and an unequal distribution of oil revenues	What is the Congo's rank among other oil generating nations in the Gulf of Guinea?
Bantu-speaking peoples who founded tribes during the Bantu expansions largely displaced and absorbed the earliest inhabitants of the region, the Pygmy people, about 1500 BC	What group of people were living in the area that would become the Congo prior to the arrival of Bantu tribes?
The Portuguese explorer Diogo Cão reached the mouth of the Congo in 1484	Whose expedition arrived at the mouth of the Congo River in 1484?
The area north of the Congo River came under French sovereignty in 1880 as a result of Pierre de Brazza's treaty with Makoko of the Bateke	When did the French take control of the region to the north of the Congo River?
During the Nazi occupation of France during World War II, Brazzaville functioned as the symbolic capital of Free France between 1940 and 1943	What served as the capital of France in spirit during the Occupation?
Following the revision of the French constitution that established the Fifth Republic in 1958, the AEF dissolved into its constituent parts, each of which became an autonomous colony within the French Community	When was the Fifth Republic founded?
The Republic of the Congo received full independence from France on August 15, 1960	On what date was the Congo made fully independent from colonial rule?
Under the 1963 constitution, Massamba-Débat was elected President for a five-year term	Who became president of the Congo in 1963?
Marien Ngouabi, who had participated in the coup, assumed the presidency on December 31, 1968	Who became president of the Congo in 1968?
Sassou Nguesso aligned the country with the Eastern Bloc and signed a twenty-year friendship pact with the Soviet Union	Which group of nations did Nguesso side the Congo with?
Pascal Lissouba, who became Congo's first elected president during the period of multi-party democracy, attempted to implement economic reforms with IMF backing to liberalise the economy	Who was elected president of the Congo in 1992?
Congo's democratic progress was derailed in 1997 when Lissouba and Sassou started to fight for power in the civil war	Which two figures clashed over leadership of the Congo in 1997?
His two main rivals, Lissouba and Bernard Kolelas, were prevented from competing and the only remaining credible rival, Andre Milongo, advised his supporters to boycott the elections and then withdrew from the race	Which politican left the presidential race after supporting a boycott by voters?
Sassou also won the following presidential election in July 2009	Who won the presidential election in 2009?
Congo-Brazzaville has had a multi-party political system since the early 1990s, although the system is heavily dominated by President Denis Sassou Nguesso; he has lacked serious competition in the presidential elections held under his rule	What kind of political system has existed in Congo-Brazzaville since the '90s?
Internationally, Sassou's regime has been hit by corruption revelations despite attempts to censor them	What has Sassou's regime attempted to censor?
On March 27, 2015 Sassou Nguesso announced that his government would hold a referendum to change the country's 2002 constitution and allow him to run for a third consecutive term in office	When did Sassou reveal that there would be a vote to alter the 2002 constitution?
In 2008, the main media were owned by the government, but many more privately run forms of media were being created	Who controlled the media in the Congo in 2008
Many Pygmies belong from birth to Bantus in a relationship many refer to as slavery	Who is considered to own members of the Pygmies?
Congo is located in the central-western part of sub-Saharan Africa, along the Equator, lying between latitudes 4°N and 5°S, and longitudes 11° and 19°E	Between which two lines of latitude is the Congo located?
The capital, Brazzaville, is located on the Congo River, in the south of the country, immediately across from Kinshasa, the capital of the Democratic Republic of the Congo	What is the capital of the Congo?
The southwest of the country is a coastal plain for which the primary drainage is the Kouilou-Niari River; the interior of the country consists of a central plateau between two basins to the south and north	What kind of terrain is found in the southwest part of the Congo?
Since the country is located on the Equator, the climate is consistent year-round, with the average day temperature being a humid 24 °C and nights generally between 16 °C and 21 °C 	On what major line of latitude is the Congo located?
In 2006–07, researchers from the Wildlife Conservation Society studied gorillas in heavily forested regions centered on the Ouesso district of the Sangha Region	Which group studied gorillas in 2006-07?
Petroleum extraction has supplanted forestry as the mainstay of the economy	What is the focus of the Congo's industrial production?
In the early 1980s, rapidly rising oil revenues enabled the government to finance large-scale development projects with GDP growth averaging 5% annually, one of the highest rates in Africa	What did income from petroleum allow the government to fund in the early '80s?
The reform program came to a halt in June 1997 when civil war erupted	What caused reform efforts to cease in 1997?
The current administration presides over an uneasy internal peace and faces difficult economic problems of stimulating recovery and reducing poverty, despite record-high oil prices since 2003	What are two economic issues faced by the Congolese government?
The Republic of the Congo also has large untapped base metal, gold, iron and phosphate deposits	What precious metals and minerals have yet to be utilized in the Republic of the Congo?
Transport in the Republic of the Congo includes land, air and water transportation	What forms of transport are available in the Congo?
The Republic of the Congo's sparse population is concentrated in the southwestern portion of the country, leaving the vast areas of tropical jungle in the north virtually uninhabited	In what part of the country can most of the Congo's citizens be found?
Ethnically and linguistically the population of the Republic of the Congo is diverse—Ethnologue recognises 62 spoken languages in the country—but can be grouped into three categories	How many languages are used in the Congo?
Before the 1997 war, about 9,000 Europeans and other non-Africans lived in Congo, most of whom were French; only a fraction of this number remains	Prior to the civil war in '97, how many non-Africans lived in the Republic of the Congo?
According to CIA World Factbook, the people of Republic of the Congo are largely a mix of Catholics (33	What is the most commonly practiced religion in the Congo?
Health expenditure was at US$30 per capita in 2004	How much was spent per capita on health in 2004 as measured in US dollars?
As of 2010, the maternal mortality rate was 560 deaths/100,000 live births, and the infant mortality rate was 59	As measured in 2010, how many deaths occurred for every 100,000 live births in the Congo?
Public education is theoretically free and mandatory for under-16-year-olds, but in practice, expenses exist	Public schooling is required for people under what age?
A prime minister is the most senior minister of cabinet in the executive branch of government, often in a parliamentary or semi-presidential system	What branch of government does the prime minister lead?
In parliamentary systems fashioned after the Westminster system, the prime minister is the presiding and actual head of government and head of the executive branch	What is a parliamentary model on which other systems have been based?
The prime minister is often, but not always, a member of parliament and is expected with other ministers to ensure the passage of bills through the legislature	What is a central duty of the prime minister?
As well as being head of government, a prime minister may have other roles or titles—the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom, for example, is also First Lord of the Treasury and Minister for the Civil Service	What are two other job titles of the Prime Minister of the UK?
The first actual usage of the term prime minister or Premier Ministre was used by Cardinal Richelieu when in 1625 he was named to head the royal council as prime minister of France	When was the title of prime minister first used?
The term prime minister in the sense that we know it originated in the 18th century in the United Kingdom when members of parliament disparagingly used the title in reference to Sir Robert Walpole	When did the modern usage of prime minister come into being?
Examples were Thomas Cromwell under Henry VIII; William Cecil, Lord Burghley under Elizabeth I; Clarendon under Charles II and Godolphin under Queen Anne	Who occupied the role that would later become prime minister under Henry VIII?
The power of these ministers depended entirely on the personal favour of the monarch	From whom did ministers derive their power?
Late in Anne's reign, for example, the Tory ministers Harley and St John shared power	Who are the two ministers used by Queen Anne simultaneously?
In the mid 17th century, after the English Civil War , Parliament strengthened its position relative to the monarch then gained more power through the Glorious Revolution of 1688 and passage of the Bill of Rights in 1689	What 1688 event helped the parliament solidy its power against the monarch?
A tipping point in the evolution of the prime ministership came with the death of Anne in 1714 and the accession of George I to the throne	The reign of which king was a turning point in the growth of the position of prime minister?
From 1721 this was the Whig politician Robert Walpole, who held office for twenty-one years	For how long did Robert Walpole serve as prime minister?
"Walpole always denied that he was ""prime minister"", and throughout the 18th century parliamentarians and legal scholars continued to deny that any such position was known to the Constitution"	Aside from Walpole, who else denied that there was no such thing as the prime minister?
By the late 20th century, the majority of the world's countries had a prime minister or equivalent minister, holding office under either a constitutional monarchy or a ceremonial president	In the U.S. and governments modeled on it, who holds executive power?
Bahrain's prime minister, Sheikh Khalifah bin Sulman Al Khalifah has been in the post since 1970, making him the longest serving non-elected prime minister	Which non-elected official has held the longest term as prime minister?
The post of prime minister may be encountered both in constitutional monarchies , and in parliamentary republics in which the head of state is an elected official 	Greece, Finland, Romania and Turkey use what kind of government?
The head of government of the People's Republic of China is referred to as the Premier of the State Council and the premier of the Republic of China is also appointed by the president, but requires no approval by the legislature	What is the term for the head of China's government?
When it arises, such a state of affairs is usually referred to as cohabitation	What is the term for a situation in which the president and prime minister come from different political parties?
Bangladesh's constitution clearly outlines the functions and powers of the Prime Minister, and also details the process of his/her appointment and dismissal	Which constitution details the role and abilities of the prime minister?
The People's Republic of China constitution set a premier just one place below the National People's Congress in China	What is directly above the premier in the People's Republic of China?
"In the Constitution Act, 1982, passing reference to a ""Prime Minister of Canada"" is added, though only regarding the composition of conferences of federal and provincial first ministers"	Which law first referred to the prime minister in Canada?
Czech Republic's constitution clearly outlines the functions and powers of the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, and also details the process of his/her appointment and dismissal	What document details the role and abilities given to the prime minister of the Czech Republic?
Though it had de facto existed for centuries, its first mention in official state documents did not occur until the first decade of the twentieth century	When was prime minister first mentioned in a government document in the UK?
For example, Margaret Thatcher was only ever appointed prime minister on one occasion, in 1979	Which prime minister was appointed only one time?
Hence the Irish Taoiseach is formally 'renominated' after every general election	What is the name of the prime ministerial position in Ireland?
In parliamentary systems, governments are generally required to have the confidence of the lower house of parliament 	Most parliamentary governments need to have the support of what governmental body?
However, in many jurisdictions a head of state may refuse a parliamentary dissolution, requiring the resignation of the prime minister and his or her government	Who can put a stop the parliamentary attempts at dissovling itself in some areas?
In the United Kingdom, for example, the tradition whereby it is the prime minister who requests a dissolution of parliament dates back to 1918	When was the convention of prime ministers initiating the dissolution of parliament started?
In Australia, the Prime Minister is expected to step down if s/he loses the majority support of his/her party under a spill motion as have many such as Tony Abbott, Julia Gillard and Kevin Rudd	What process signals the need for the prime minister to resign in Australia?
"In the Russian constitution the prime minister is actually titled Chairman of the government while the Irish prime minister is called the Taoiseach , and in Israel he is Rosh HaMemshalah meaning ""head of the government"""	What is the Russian term for prime minister?
Other common forms include president of the council of ministers , President of the Executive Council, or Minister-President	What is the Italian term for the prime minister?
"The convention in the English language is to call nearly all national heads of government ""prime minister"" , regardless of the correct title of the head of government as applied in his or her respective country"	What is a term that is used to mean prime minister?
In non-Commonwealth countries the prime minister may be entitled to the style of Excellency like a president	In what kinds of nations can the head of government attain the title of Excellency?
In the UK, where devolved government is in place, the leaders of the Scottish, Northern Irish and Welsh Governments are styled First Minister	What kind of government is in operation in the United Kingdom?
The Prime Minister's executive office is usually called the Office of the Prime Minister in the case of the Canada and other Commonwealth countries, it is called Cabinet Office in United Kingdom	What is the head of government's office called in Canada?
The prestige of British institutions in the 19th century and the growth of the British Empire saw the British model of cabinet government, headed by a prime minister, widely copied, both in other European countries and in British colonial territories as they developed self-government	What istitutions were prestiges in the 1900's
 The term institute of technology is often abbreviated IT and is not to be confused with information technology	What's a common abbreviation for the term institute of technology?
The English term polytechnic appeared in the early 19th century, from the French École Polytechnique, an engineering school founded in 1794 in Paris	In what century did the term polytechnic first show up?
"While the terms ""institute of technology"" and ""polytechnic"" are synonymous, the preference concerning which one is the preferred term varies from country to country"	"What word means the same thing as ""institute of technology""?"
The world's first institution of technology, the Berg-Schola was founded by the Court Chamber of Vienna in Selmecbánya, Kingdom of Hungary in 1735 in order to train specialists of precious metal and copper mining according to the requirements of the industrial revolution in Hungary	What was the first institute of technology in the world?
In several countries, like Germany, the Netherlands, Switzerland and Turkey, institutes of technology and polytechnics are institutions of higher education, and have been accredited to award academic degrees and doctorates	What kind of institutions do countries like Germany and Switzerland consider institutes of technology to be?
In 1992 UK Polytechnics were designated as universities which meant they could award their own degrees	In what year were polytechnics in the UK given the university designation?
In a number of countries, although being today generally considered similar institutions of higher learning across many countries, polytechnics and institutes of technology used to have a quite different statute among each other, its teaching competences and organizational history	What term was used in some countries to describe select universities that focus on technological education in applied science and engineering?
These new universities often took the title University of Technology, for marketing rather than legal purposes	What name did some universities switch to in the 1990s for marketing purposes?
Since the mid-1990s, the term has been applied to some technically minded technical and further education institutes	What's the four-letter abbreviation for technically minded technical and further education institutes?
In Tasmania in 2009 the old college system and TAFE Tasmania have started a 3-year restructure to become the Tasmanian Polytechnic www	TAFE Tasmania started a three-year restructuring in what year?
In the higher education sector, there are seven designated Universities of Technology in Australia :	In Australia, how many universities are recognized as Universities of Technology?
Fachhochschule is a German type of tertiary education institution and adopted later in Austria and Switzerland	What's the German word for a tertiary education institution?
The hogeschool has many similarities to the Fachhochschule in the German language areas and to the ammattikorkeakoulu in Finland	What term is used in Belgium and the Netherlands to refer to an institution like a German Fachhochschule?
Hogeschool institutions in the Flemish Community of Belgium are currently undergoing a process of academization	What term refers to the process that a hogeschool undergoes before it's able to award Master's degrees?
In the Netherlands, four former institutes of technology have become universities over the past decades	How many institutes of technology in the Netherlands have converted into full-fledged universities in the past few decades?
In Cambodia, there are Institutes of Technology/Polytechnic Institutes, and Universities that offer instruction in a variety of programs that can lead to: certificates, diplomas, and degrees	What country has Institutes of Technology/Polytechnic Institutes from which students can earn certificates, diplomas, and degrees?
In Canada, there are Affiliate Schools, Colleges, Institutes of Technology/Polytechnic Institutes, and Universities that offer instruction in a variety of programs that can lead to: engineering and applied science degrees, apprenticeship and trade programs, certificates, and diplomas	What are polytechnic divisions of national universities called in Canada?
Credentials are typically conferred at the undergraduate level, however university-affiliated schools like the École de technologie supérieure and the École Polytechnique de Montréal , also offer graduate and postgraduate programs, in accordance with provincial higher education guidelines	In what city is the École Polytechnique de Montréal located?
Some of Canada's most esteemed colleges and polytechnic institutions also partake in collaborative institute-industry projects, leading to technology commercialization, made possible through the scope of Polytechnics Canada; a national alliance of eleven leading research-intensive colleges and institutes of technology	What is Canada's national alliance of 11 research-focused schools called?
China's modern higher education began in 1895 with the Imperial Tientsin University which was a polytechnic plus a law department	In what year was the Imperial Tientsin University founded in China?
The law about polytechnic education in Croatia was passed in 1997	What year did Croatia pass a law regarding polytechnic education?
The Geophysics Institute monitors over the country`s seismic, tectonic and volcanic activity in the continental territory and in the Galápagos Islands	What institution is in charge of tracking volcanic activity in the Galápagos Islands?
One of the oldest observatories in South America is the Quito Astronomical Observatory	What observatory is the National Observatory of Ecuador?
The Nuclear Science Department at EPN is the only one in Ecuador and has the large infrastructure, related to irrradiation factilities like cobalt-60 source and Electron beam processing	EPN's Nuclear Science Department is among how many of its kind in Ecuador?
Its mission is to provide high quality education, training and research in the areas of science and technology to produce qualified professionals that can apply their knowledge and skills in the country's development	If the mission is achieved, professionals will apply what they've learned to what goal?
As a result of the unstinting efforts made by the Provisional Governing Board to obtain technical and financial assistance, the Institute has so far secured financial and material support as well as pledges of sponsorship for 50 students, covering their tuition fees, room and board up to graduation	MIT raised money to cover tuition, room and board for what number of students?
) degrees and roughly correspond to Instituts de technologie of French-speaking areas and Technische Universität of Germany in prestige	What's the equivalent of Universities of Technology in French-speaking areas?
) required 180 credits, whereas M	How many credits were needed for an M.Sc. degree before the Bologna Process?
Polytechnic schools are distinct from academic universities in Finland	In what country are polytechnic schools designated uniquely from academic universities?
Collegiate universities grouping several engineering schools or multi-site clusters of French grandes écoles provide sciences and technology curricula as autonomous higher education engineering institutes	Universities that encompass several engineering schools provide curricula in sciences and what other field?
They are referred-to as institut universitaire de technologie 	What are an institute of technology called in France?
In the French-speaking part of Switzerland exists also the term haute école specialisée for a type of institution called Fachhochschule in the German-speaking part of the country	What's the term in German for what those in French-speaking Switzerland call haute école specialisée?
Such terms include Écoles Polytechniques , Escola Politécnica , Polytechnicum 	In Eastern Europe, what is the word for an institute of technology?
Fachhochschulen were first founded in the early 1970s	Fachhochschulen first came about in the early years of what decade?
Technische Universität are the common terms for universities of technology or technical university	What's the abbreviation for a Technische Universität?
RWTH Aachen, TU Dresden and TU München also have a faculty of medicine associated with university hospitals 	Which department's faculty can be associated with university hospitals?
There are 17 universities of technology in Germany with about 290,000 students enrolled	How many institutes of technology are there in Germany?
Niedersächsische Technische Hochschule is a joint-venture of TU Clausthal, TU Braunschweig and University of Hanover	What's the joint project of TU Clausthal, TU Braunschweig, and the University of Hanover called?
1404/1983 Higher Education Reform Act (Ν	What's the name of the Act that changed how Greek public institutes of technology were designated?
The first polytechnic in Hong Kong is The Hong Kong Polytechnic, established in 1972 through upgrading the Hong Kong Technical College 	What was the very first polytechnic school in Hong Kong?
The world's first Institute of Technology the Berg-Schola established in Selmecbánya, Kingdom of Hungary by the Court Chamber of Vienna in 1735 providing Further education to train specialists of precious metal and copper mining	What kind of mining did the world's first institute of technology prepare students for?
There are 16 autonomous Indian Institutes of Technology in addition to 30 National Institutes of Technology which are Government Institutions	How many private institutes of technology are there in India?
In India a Diploma in Engineering is a specific academic award usually awarded in technical or vocational courses e	What's the name of the diploma awarded in India for technical or vocational coursework?
There are four public institutes of technology in Indonesia that owned by the government of Indonesia	How many government-owned public institutes of technology does Indonesia have?
Politeknik provides vocational education and typically offers three-year Diploma degrees, which is similar to associate degrees, instead of full, four-year bachelor's degree and the more advanced Master's and doctoral degrees being offered by an Institut Teknologi	Rather than four-year Bachelor's degrees, Politeknik offer a diploma after how many years?
"Ireland has an ""Institute of Technology"" system, formerly referred to as Regional Technical College system"	What was the original name of Ireland's Institute of Technology system?
Dublin Institute of Technology developed separately from the Regional Technical College system, and after several decades of association with the University of Dublin, Trinity College it acquired the authority to confer its own degrees	What Irish institute of technology evolved independently of the Regional Technical College System?
In higher education, Politecnico refers to a technical university awarding degrees in engineering	What term in higher education refers to technical universities that award engineering degrees?
In 2003, the Ministry of Education, Universities and Research and the Ministry of Economy and Finance jointly established the Istituto Italiano di Tecnologia , headquartered in Genoa with 10 laboratories around Italy, which however focuses on research and does not offer undergraduate degrees	What city houses the headquarters of the Istituto Italiano di Tecnologia?
See also the Imperial College of Engineering, which was the forerunner of the University of Tokyo's engineering faculty	What college was the forerunner for the engineering faculty at the University of Tokyo?
Polytechnics in Malaysia has been operated for almost 44 years	What country has operated polytechnic institutes for nearly 44 years?
At present, Malaysia have developed 32 polytechnic at all over states in engineering, agriculture, commerce, hospitality and design courses with 60,840 students in 2009 to 87,440 students in 2012	How many polytechnic institutes does Malaysia have now?
The only technical university in Mauritius is the University of Technology, Mauritius with its main campus situated in La Tour Koenig, Pointe aux Sables	What's the name of Mauritius's sole technical university?
New Zealand polytechnics are established under the Education Act 1989 as amended, and are considered state-owned tertiary institutions along with universities, colleges of education, and wānanga; there is today often much crossover in courses and qualifications offered between all these types of Tertiary Education Institutions	What country considers their polytechnics, universities, and colleges state-owned institutions?
In the polytechnic sector: Wellington Polytechnic amalgamated with Massey University	What school did Massey University combine with?
The Auckland University of Technology is the only polytechnic to have been elevated to university status; while Unitec has had repeated attempts blocked by government policy and consequent decisions; Unitec has not been able to convince the courts to overturn these decisions	What's the only polytechnic school in New Zealand to be designated a university?
Students are admitted to the diploma program based on their results in the 10th grade standardized exams	In Pakistan, a student's tests in what grade determine their admission to a diploma program?
After successfully completing a diploma at a polytechnic, students can gain lateral entry to engineering degree courses called BE, which are conducted by engineering colleges affiliated to universities or University of Engineering & Technology or University of Engineering Sciences	What two-letter abbreviation is used for undergraduate engineering courses?
Politechnika is a main kind of technical university name in Poland	What word do they use in Poland for an institute of technology?
Before then, they only awarded short-cycle degrees which were known as bacharelatos and did not provide further education	What is the Portuguese word for the short-cycle degrees awarded prior to 1988?
Under this system, most Singaporean students sit for their O-Level examinations after a four or five years of education in secondary school, and apply for a place at either a technical school termed ITE, a polytechnic or a university-preparatory school 	What's the name of Singapore's centralized institute that students can attend before university?
There are 5 polytechnics in Singapore	How many polytechnics are there in Singapore?
The world's first institution of technology or technical university with tertiary technical education is the Banská Akadémia in Banská Štiavnica, Slovakia, founded in 1735, Academy since December 13, 1762 established by queen Maria Theresa in order to train specialists of silver and gold mining and metallurgy in neighbourhood	What queen set up the Banská Akadémia?
Historically a division has existed in South Africa between Universities and Technikons as well between institutions servicing particular racial and language groupings	What are polytechnics called in South Africa?
Beginning in 2004 former Technikons have either been merged with traditional Universities to form Comprehensive Universities or have become Universities of Technology, however the Universities of Technology have not to date acquired all of the traditional rights and privileges of a University 	When did Technikons start being integrated with traditional South African universities?
Most of Thailand's institutes of technology were developed from technical colleges, in the past could not grant bachelor's degrees; today, however, they are university level institutions, some of which can grant degrees to the doctoral level	Most institutes of technology in Thailand were born out of what other type of institutions?
"There are two former institutes of technology, which already changed their name to ""University of Technology"": Rajamangala University of Technology and King Mongkut's University of Technology Thonburi "	What did the Thonburi Technology Institute become after its name change?
Institutes of technology with different origins are Asian Institute of Technology, which developed from SEATO Graduate School of Engineering, and Sirindhorn International Institute of Technology, an engineering school of Thammasat University	What is the name of Thammasat University's engineering school?
In 2010, another technical university named Bursa Technical University was founded in Bursa	What institute of technology opened in Bursa in 2010?
Since 1970 UK Polytechnics operated under the binary system of education along with universities	What year did UK polytechnics start functioning in a binary education system?
"The designation ""Institute of Technology"" was occasionally used by polytechnics , Central Institutions , and postgraduate universities, , most of which later adopted the designation University, and there were two ""Institutes of Science and Technology"": UMIST and UWIST, part of the University of Wales"	How many Institutes of Science and Technology were affiliated with the University of Wales?
Polytechnics were granted university status under the Further and Higher Education Act 1992	What act allowed polytechnic schools to become universities?
Most technical institutes have been merged into regional colleges and some have been designated university colleges if they are associated with a local university	If a technical institute is affiliated with a local university, what does its designation become?
The earliest and most famous of these institutions are, respectively, Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute , New York University Tandon School of Engineering and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology 	In what year was Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute founded?
At that time, technical education was considered essential for the development of a sound middle class economy	What type of economy was technical education in Venezuela intended to support?
The Institute of technology implementation began with the creation of the first IUT at Caracas, capital city of Venezuela, called IUT	What city in Venezuela had the first IUT?
The Wayback Machine is a digital archive of the World Wide Web and other information on the Internet created by the Internet Archive, a nonprofit organization, based in San Francisco, California, United States	Where does the information stored on the Wayback Machine come from?
Since 1996, they have been archiving cached pages of web sites onto their large cluster of Linux nodes	What operating system is used on Wayback Machine's servers?
The name Wayback Machine was chosen as a droll reference to a plot device in an animated cartoon series, The Rocky and Bullwinkle Show	What TV show served as inspiration for the Wayback Machine's name?
In 1996 Brewster Kahle, with Bruce Gilliat, developed software to crawl and download all publicly accessible World Wide Web pages, the Gopher hierarchy, the Netnews bulletin board system, and downloadable software	When was the program necessary to crawl and archive the web created?
Information had been kept on digital tape for five years, with Kahle occasionally allowing researchers and scientists to tap into the clunky database	What medium was originally used to keep Internet Archive's data?
Snapshots usually become available more than six months after they are archived or, in some cases, even later; it can take twenty-four months or longer	What are the saved versions of a site called?
After August 2008 sites had to be listed on the Open Directory in order to be included	When did it become a requirement for websites to appear on Open Directory for inclusion in the Archive?
As of 2009, the Wayback Machine contained approximately three petabytes of data and was growing at a rate of 100 terabytes each month; the growth rate reported in 2003 was 12 terabytes/month	In 2009, what size did the data saved by Wayback Machine reach?
In 2009, the Internet Archive migrated its customized storage architecture to Sun Open Storage, and hosts a new data center in a Sun Modular Datacenter on Sun Microsystems' California campus	When did Internet Archive chance its platform for data storage?
In 2011 a new, improved version of the Wayback Machine, with an updated interface and fresher index of archived content, was made available for public testing	When was an upgrade of the Wayback Machine released for testing?
"In March 2011, it was said on the Wayback Machine forum that ""The Beta of the new Wayback Machine has a more complete and up-to-date index of all crawled materials into 2010, and will continue to be updated regularly"	When were details of the test version of the updated Wayback Machine released?
"In October 2013, the company announced the ""Save a Page"" feature which allows any Internet user to archive the contents of a URL"	What was the functionality called that gave users the ability to save a snapshot of a site?
Chordiant Software Inc	Which company thought that Wayback Machine data was important for its argument?
Netbula objected to the motion on the ground that defendants were asking to alter Netbula's web site and that they should have subpoenaed Internet Archive for the pages directly	Who did Netbula believe was the entity that should be responsible for the availability of its snapshots?
Magistrate Judge Howard Lloyd in the Northern District of California, San Jose Division, rejected Netbula's arguments and ordered them to disable the robots	Which judge presided over the Netbula v. Chordiant case?
Telewizja Polska is the provider of TVP Polonia and EchoStar operates the Dish Network	What does Telewizja Polska operate?
These dates are used to determine if a Web page is available as prior art for instance in examining a patent application	When are Internet Archive timestamps useful for patent offices?
There are technical limitations to archiving a web site, and as a consequence, it is possible for opposing parties in litigation to misuse the results provided by web site archives	What kind of limitations exist in keeping copies of a website?
In Europe the Wayback Machine could be interpreted as violating copyright laws	What kinds of laws could the Wayback Machine be viewed as breaking in Europe?
In late 2002, the Internet Archive removed various sites that were critical of Scientology from the Wayback Machine	Web pages that contained content critical of what religous movement were taken off of the Internet Archive in 2002?
In 2003, Harding Earley Follmer & Frailey defended a client from a trademark dispute using the Archive's Wayback Machine	Which law firm leveraged Wayback Machine to protect their client in 2003?
txt is used as part of the Robots Exclusion Standard, a voluntary protocol the Internet Archive respects that disallows bots from indexing certain pages delineated by its creator as off-limits	What kind of protocol is the Robots Exclusion Standard?
"The Internet Archive states, however, ""Sometimes a website owner will contact us directly and ask us to stop crawling or archiving a site"	Who asserts that they will respond to direct contacts requesting material be removed from the archive?
In December 2005, activist Suzanne Shell filed suit demanding Internet Archive pay her US $100,000 for archiving her web site profane-justice	Who sued Internet Archive in 2005?
On April 25, 2007, Internet Archive and Suzanne Shell jointly announced the settlement of their lawsuit	When did Suzanne Shell's suit against Internet Archive come to an end?
In 2013–14 a pornographic actor was trying to remove archived images of himself, first by sending multiple DMCA requests to the Archive and then in the Federal Court of Canada	What was the first method used by the actor in trying to get his images taken down?
The Dutch Republic, also known as the Republic of the Seven United Netherlands , Republic of the United Netherlands or Republic of the Seven United Provinces , was a republic in Europe existing from 1581, when part of the Netherlands separated from Spanish rule, until 1795	The Dutch Republic was a republic of Europe during what time?
Until the 16th century, the Low Countries – corresponding roughly to the present-day Netherlands, Belgium, and Luxembourg – consisted of a number of duchies, counties, and Prince-bishoprics, almost all of which were under the supremacy of the Holy Roman Empire, with the exception of the county of Flanders, which was under the Kingdom of France	The Low Countries were made up of which present day countries?
Most of the Low Countries had come under the rule of the House of Burgundy and subsequently the House of Habsburg	The majority of the Low Countries were ruled by which houses?
In 1579 a number of the northern provinces of the Low Countries signed the Union of Utrecht, in which they promised to support each other in their defence against the Spanish army	In what year was the Union of Utrecht signed?
In 1582 the United Provinces invited Francis, Duke of Anjou to lead them; but after a failed attempt to take Antwerp in 1583, the duke left the Netherlands again	In what year did the United Provinces invite Francis, Duke of Anjou to lead them?
The Republic of the United Provinces lasted until a series of republican revolutions in 1783–1795 created the Batavian Republic	What events created the Batavian Republic?
The Netherlands regained independence from France in 1813	In what year did the Netherlands gain independence from France?
During the Dutch Golden Age in the late 16th century onward, the Dutch Republic dominated world trade in the 17th century, conquering a vast colonial empire and operating the largest fleet of merchantmen of any nation	The Dutch Republic dominated world trade during what time?
The Netherlands has the oldest stock exchange in the world, founded in 1602 by the Dutch East India Company	When was the stock exchange founded in the Netherlands?
Between 1590–1712 the Dutch also possessed one of the strongest and fastest navies in the world, allowing for their varied conquests including breaking the Portuguese sphere of influence on the Indian Ocean and in the Orient, as well as a lucrative slave trade from Africa and the Pacific	The Dutch had one of the strongest and fastest navies in the world during what time?
The republic was a confederation of seven provinces, which had their own governments and were very independent, and a number of so-called Generality Lands	The Dutch Republic consisted of how many provinces?
In fact, there was an eighth province, the County of Drenthe, but this area was so poor it was exempt from paying federal taxes and as a consequence was denied representation in the States General	What was the 8th province of the Dutch Republic?
In theory, the stadtholders were freely appointed by and subordinate to the states of each province	Who appointed the stadtholders?
There was a constant power struggle between the Orangists, who supported the stadtholders and specifically the princes of Orange, and the Republicans, who supported the States General and hoped to replace the semi-hereditary nature of the stadtholdership with a true republican structure	What group of people supported the stadtholders, particularly the princes of Orange?
After the Peace of Westphalia, several border territories were assigned to the United Provinces	Several border territories were designated to the United Provinces after what?
The States General of the United Provinces were in control of the Dutch East India Company and the Dutch West India Company , but some shipping expeditions were initiated by some of the provinces, mostly Holland and/or Zeeland	Who was in control of the Dutch East India Company and the Dutch West India Company ?
The framers of the US Constitution were influenced by the Constitution of the Republic of the United Provinces, as Federalist No	Who was influenced by the Constitution of the Republic of the United Provinces?
In the Union of Utrecht of 20 January 1579, Holland and Zeeland were granted the right to accept only one religion 	What granted Holland and Zeeland the right to accept only one religion?
During the Republic, any person who wished to hold public office had to conform to the Reformed Church and take an oath to this effect	What did any person who wanted to hold public office need to conform to during the Republic?
In the first years of the Republic, controversy arose within the Reformed Church, mainly around the subject of predestination	What was the main subject of controversy that arose within the Reformed Church during the beginning of the Republic?
Beginning in the 18th century, the situation changed from more or less active persecution of religious services to a state of restricted toleration of other religions, as long as their services took place secretly in private churches	When did the active persecution of religious services become more of a restricted tolerance?
Symbiosis is close and often long-term interaction between two different biological species	"What language does the word ""symbiosis"" come from?"
"After 130 years of debate, current biology and ecology textbooks now use the latter ""de Bary"" definition or an even broader definition , with the restrictive definition no longer used "	How long did it take for scientists to stop using the narrow definition of symbiosis?
Some symbiotic relationships are obligate, meaning that both symbionts entirely depend on each other for survival	What is the type of symbiotic relationship where two organisms can't survive without each other?
Symbiotic relationships include those associations in which one organism lives on another , or where one partner lives inside the other 	What is an example of ectosymbiosis?
Examples include diverse microbiomes, rhizobia, nitrogen-fixing bacteria that live in root nodules on legume roots; actinomycete nitrogen-fixing bacteria called Frankia, which live in alder tree root nodules; single-celled algae inside reef-building corals; and bacterial endosymbionts that provide essential nutrients to about 10%–15% of insects	What do bacterial endosymbionts give necessary nutrition to?
Examples of this include ectoparasites such as lice, commensal ectosymbionts such as the barnacles that attach themselves to the jaw of baleen whales, and mutualist ectosymbionts such as cleaner fish	What organisms are described as living on the surface of whales?
Mutualism or interspecies reciprocal altruism is a relationship between individuals of different species where both individuals benefit	What is another term for mutualism?
A large percentage of herbivores have mutualistic gut flora that help them digest plant matter, which is more difficult to digest than animal prey	What type of relationship do herbivores have with the bacteria in their intestines?
An example of mutual symbiosis is the relationship between the ocellaris clownfish that dwell among the tentacles of Ritteri sea anemones	What lives with Ritteri sea anemones?
A further example is the goby fish, which sometimes lives together with a shrimp	What species does this shrimp have a relationship with?
Another non-obligate symbiosis is known from encrusting bryozoans and hermit crabs that live in a close relationship	What type of symbiosis seen between bryozoans and hermit crabs?
These worms were discovered in the late 1980s at the hydrothermal vents near the Galapagos Islands and have since been found at deep-sea hydrothermal vents and cold seeps in all of the world's oceans	When were the worms found?
During mutualistic symbioses, the host cell lacks some of the nutrients, which are provided by the endosymbiont	What is given to the host cell?
Adaptation of the endosymbiont to the host's lifestyle leads to many changes in the endosymbiont–the foremost being drastic reduction in its genome size	What is the main alteration in an endosymbiont when it adapts to a host?
"The word derives from the medieval Latin word, formed from com- and mensa, meaning ""sharing a table"""	"What language do the roots of ""commensal"" come from?"
Commensal relationships may involve one organism using another for transportation or for housing , or it may also involve one organism using something another created, after its death 	What is the term for a relationship where one organism provides a dwelling for the other?
A parasitic relationship is one in which one member of the association benefits while the other is harmed	Antagonistic or antipathetic symbiosis are alternate names for what?
Amensalism is the type of relationship that exists where one species is inhibited or completely obliterated and one is unaffected	What is the name for the kind of symbiosis in which one organism is seriously harmed and there is no affect on the other?
Amensalism is often used to describe strongly asymmetrical competitive interactions, such as has been observed between the Spanish ibex and weevils of the genus Timarcha which feed upon the same type of shrub	What organisms is the ibex in an amensalistic relationship with?
Synnecrosis is a rare type of symbiosis in which the interaction between species is detrimental to both organisms involved	What type of relationship harms both organisms?
In fact, the evolution of all eukaryotes is believed under the endosymbiotic theory to have resulted from a symbiosis between various sorts of bacteria	What far-reaching result do scientists think has come about from symbiosis with bacteria?
The biologist Lynn Margulis, famous for her work on endosymbiosis, contends that symbiosis is a major driving force behind evolution	What does Margulis think is the main driver of evolution?
Symbiosis played a major role in the co-evolution of flowering plants and the animals that pollinate them	How big a part did symbiosis have in the development of flowering plants and their pollinators?
"The Canadian Armed Forces , or Canadian Forces , is the unified armed force of Canada, as constituted by the National Defence Act, which states: ""The Canadian Forces are the armed forces of Her Majesty raised by Canada and consist of one Service called the Canadian Armed Forces"	What is the French name of the Canadian Armed Forces?
Personnel may belong to either the Regular Force or the Reserve Force, which has four sub-components: the Primary Reserve, Supplementary Reserve, Cadet Organizations Administration and Training Service, and the Canadian Rangers	How many sub components are there?
The Commander-in-Chief of the Canadian Armed Forces is the reigning Canadian monarch, Queen Elizabeth II, who is represented by the Governor General of Canada	Who currently is the Commander-in-Chief of the Canadian Armed Forces?
During the Cold War, a principal focus of Canadian defence policy was contributing to the security of Europe in the face of the Soviet military threat	What war were the CAF involved in?
"However, since the end of the Cold War, as the North Atlantic Treaty Organization has moved much of its defence focus ""out of area"", the Canadian military has also become more deeply engaged in international security operations in various other parts of the world – most notably in Afghanistan since 2002"	What Treaty is the CAF part of?
Canadian defence policy today is based on the Canada First Defence Strategy, introduced in 2008	What is Canada's defense policy based on?
Consistent with the missions and priorities outlined above, the Canadian Armed Forces also contribute to the conduct of Canadian defence diplomacy through a range of activities, including the deployment of Canadian Defence Attachés, participation in bilateral and multilateral military forums (e	What other priority do the Canadian Armed Forces also contribute too?
Prior to Confederation in 1867, residents of the colonies in what is now Canada served as regular members of French and British forces and in local militia groups	What year was Canada united in a confederation?
The responsibility for military command remained with the British Crown-in-Council, with a commander-in-chief for North America stationed at Halifax until the final withdrawal of British Army and Royal Navy units from that city in 1906	Who initially had military command?
The first overseas deployment of Canadian military forces occurred during the Second Boer War, when several units were raised to serve under British command	When was the first overseas deployment of the Canadian Military?
Since 1947, Canadian military units have participated in more than 200 operations worldwide, and completed 72 international operations	How many operations has the Canadian Military been part of since 1947?
Battles which are particularly notable to the Canadian military include the Battle of Vimy Ridge, the Dieppe Raid, the Battle of Ortona, the Battle of Passchendaele, the Normandy Landings, the Battle for Caen, the Battle of the Scheldt, the Battle of Britain, the Battle of the Atlantic, the strategic bombing of German cities, and more recently the Battle of Medak Pocket, in Croatia	What famous World War II battle was the Canadian Military part of?
At the end of the Second World War, Canada possessed the fourth-largest air force and fifth-largest naval surface fleet in the world, as well as the largest volunteer army ever fielded	Canada had which biggest army during the Second World War?
The current iteration of the Canadian Armed Forces dates from 1 February 1968, when the Royal Canadian Navy, Canadian Army, and Royal Canadian Air Force were merged into a unified structure and superseded by elemental commands	When did the Canadian Armed Forced become to be?
"After the 1980s, the use of the ""Canadian Armed Forces"" name gave way to ""Canadian Forces""; The ""Canadian Armed Forces"" name returned in 2013"	What is the old name of the Canadian Forces?
Land Forces during this period also deployed in support of peacekeeping operations within United Nations sanctioned conflicts	What forces were sent out in support of peacekeeping?
1 billion annually and are presently ranked 74th in size compared to the world's other armed forces by number of total personnel, and 58th in terms of active personnel, standing at a strength of roughly 68,000, plus 27,000 reservists, 5000 Rangers, and 19,000 supplementary reserves, bringing the total force to approximately 119,000	How are the Canadian forces ranked in size compared to other military?
In 2008 the Government of Canada made efforts, through the Canada First Defence Strategy, to modernize the Canadian Armed Forces, through the purchase of new equipment, improved training and readiness, as well as the establishment of the Canadian Special Operations Regiment	What was the effort called to upgrade the Canadian Forces?
The 2006 renewal and re-equipment effort has resulted in the acquisition of specific equipment to support the mission in Afghanistan	What equipment was acquired to aid in Afghanistan?
In the 1950s, the recruitment of women was open to roles in medicine, communication, logistics, and administration	What roles were women recruited for in the 1950s?
In 1987, occupations and units with the primary role of preparing for direct involvement in combat on the ground or at sea were still closed to women: infantry, armoured corps, field artillery, air-defence artillery, signals, field engineers, and naval operations	Name some of the jobs in the CAF off limits to women in the 1980s.
All military occupations were open to women in 1989, with the exception of submarine service, which opened in 2000	What year were most military occupations opened to women?
All equipment must be suitable for a mixed-gender force	What is a requirement for equipment for the CAF?
The following is the hierarchy of the Canadian Armed Forces	What is the hierarchy of the French Armed Forces?
The Canadian constitution determines that the Commander-in-Chief of the Canadian Armed Forces is the country's sovereign, who, since 1904, has authorized his or her viceroy, the governor general, to exercise the duties ascribed to the post of Commander-in-Chief and to hold the associated title since 1905	What determines who is the Commander-in-Chief of the Armed forces?
The Armed Forces' 115,349 personnel are divided into a hierarchy of numerous ranks of officers and non-commissioned members	The armed forces has approximately how many members?
Canada's Armed forces operate out of 27 Canadian Forces bases across the country, including NDHQ	How many Canadian Forces bases are there in Canada?
The Royal Canadian Navy , headed by the Commander of the Royal Canadian Navy, includes 33 warships and submarines deployed in two fleets: Maritime Forces Pacific at CFB Esquimalt on the west coast, and Maritime Forces Atlantic at Her Majesty's Canadian Dockyard in Halifax on the east coast, as well as one formation: the Naval Reserve Headquarters at Quebec City, Quebec	How many warships does the Royal Canadian Navy have?
The Canadian Army is headed by the Commander of the Canadian Army and administered through four divisions—the 2nd Canadian Division, the 3rd Canadian Division, the 4th Canadian Division and the 5th Canadian Division—the Canadian Army Doctrine and Training System and the Canadian Army Headquarters	Who heads the Canadian Army?
Currently, the Regular Force component of the Army consists of three field-ready brigade groups: 1 Canadian Mechanized Brigade Group, at CFB Edmonton and CFB Shilo; 2 Canadian Mechanized Brigade Group, at CFB Petawawa and CFB Gagetown; and 5 Canadian Mechanized Brigade Group, at CFB Valcartier and Quebec City	How many brigades does the Army consist of?
Major training and support establishments exist at CFB Gagetown, CFB Montreal and CFB Wainwright	 Where is most of the minor training performed?
The Royal Canadian Air Force is headed by the Commander of the Royal Canadian Air Force	Who heads the Royal Canadian Air Force?
Major air bases are located in British Columbia, Alberta, Saskatchewan, Manitoba, Ontario, Quebec, Nova Scotia, and Newfoundland and Labrador, while administrative and command and control facilities are located in Winnipeg and North Bay	What are some locations of the air bases?
The RCAF and Joint Task Force also maintain at various points throughout Canada's northern region a chain of forward operating locations, each capable of supporting fighter operations	What does JTFN stand for?
The Canadian Joint Operations Command is an operational element established in October 2012 with the merger of Canada Command, the Canadian Expeditionary Force Command and the Canadian Operational Support Command	When was the Canadian Joint Operations Command established?
The Canadian Special Operations Forces Command is a formation capable of operating independently but primarily focused on generating special operations forces elements to support CJOC	what does CANSOFCOM stand for?
Among other things, the Information Management Group is responsible for the conduct of electronic warfare and the protection of the Armed Forces' communications and computer networks	What is the the Information Management Group responsible for?
The Health Services Group is a joint formation that includes over 120 general or specialized units and detachments providing health services to the Canadian Armed Forces	Who does The Health Services Group serve?
The Canadian Armed Forces have a total reserve force of approximately 50,000 primary and supplementary that can be called upon in times of national emergency or threat	When can the reserve force be called upon?
This group is represented, though not commanded, at NDHQ by the Chief of Reserves and Cadets, who is usually a major general or rear admiral, and is divided into four components that are each operationally and administratively responsible to its corresponding environmental command in the Regular Force – the Naval Reserve , Land Force Reserve , and Air Reserve – in addition to one force that does not fall under an environmental command, the Health Services Reserve under the Canadian Forces Health Services Group	Who commands the reserves?
The Cadet Organizations Administration and Training Service consists of officers and non-commissioned members who conduct training, safety, supervision and administration of nearly 60,000 cadets aged 12 to 18 years in the Canadian Cadet Movement	Who conducts training of the cadets?
The Canadian Rangers, who provide surveillance and patrol services in Canada's arctic and other remote areas, are an essential reserve force component used for Canada's exercise of sovereignty over its northern territory	What do Canadian Rangers perform?
"Only service dress is suitable for CAF members to wear on any occasion, barring ""dirty work"" or combat"	What is suitable for CAF members to wear on any occasion?
Authorized headdress for the Canadian Armed Forces are the: beret, wedge cap, ballcap, Yukon cap, and tuque 	What are some of the authorized head dresses for the CAF?
The Constitution of Canada gives the federal government exclusive responsibility for national defence, and expenditures are thus outlined in the federal budget	What gives the federal government responsibility for national defense?
Although the Canadian Armed Forces are a single service, there are three similar but distinctive environmental uniforms : navy blue for the navy, rifle green for the army, and light blue for the air force	What color is the DEU uniform if it isn't green?
In the 12th century the practice of appointing ecclesiastics from outside Rome as cardinals began, with each of them assigned a church in Rome as his titular church or linked with one of the suburbicarian dioceses, while still being incardinated in a diocese other than that of Rome	What were the cardinals assigned? 
"The term cardinal at one time applied to any priest permanently assigned or incardinated to a church, or specifically to the senior priest of an important church, based on the Latin cardo , meaning ""principal"" or ""chief"""	At one time, Priest permanently were assigned to a church were referred to as?
"In Rome the first persons to be called cardinals were the deacons of the seven regions of the city at the beginning of the 6th century, when the word began to mean “principal,” “eminent,” or ""superior"	Who were the first people to be called cardinals in Rome? 
In cities other than Rome, the name cardinal began to be applied to certain church men as a mark of honour	What term was given to certain church men of honor?
In the year 1563 the influential Ecumenical Council of Trent, headed by Pope Pius IV, wrote about the importance of selecting good Cardinals	In what year did Pope Pius IV wrote abou tthe selecting of cardinals? 
The earlier influence of temporal rulers, notably the French kings, reasserted itself through the influence of cardinals of certain nationalities or politically significant movements	Who were generally temporal rulers?
Cardinal Richelieu's power was so great that he was for many years effectively the ruler of France	What Caridinal had powers so great that he basically ran France?
Pope Sixtus V limited the number of cardinals to 70, comprising six cardinal bishops, 50 cardinal priests, and 14 cardinal deacons	Pope Sixtus V limited the number of cardinals to?
Each cardinal takes on a titular church, either a church in the city of Rome or one of the suburbicarian sees	Where do the cardinals work?
The Dean of the College of Cardinals in addition to such a titular church also receives the titular bishopric of Ostia, the primary suburbicarian see	Who receives the hishopric of Ostia?
In 1630, Pope Urban VIII decreed their title to be Eminence and decreed that their secular rank would equate to Prince, making them secondary only to the Pope and crowned monarchs	In was year was the title decreed Eminence?
"Oriental Patriarchs who are created Cardinals customarily use ""Sanctae Ecclesiae Cardinalis"" as their full title, probably because they do not belong to the Roman clergy"	How do Oriental Patriarchs sign?
"In Latin, on the other hand, the Cardinal order is used in the proclamation of the election of a new pope by the cardinal protodeacon: ""Annuntio vobis gaudium magnum; habemus Papam: Eminentissimum ac Reverendissimum Dominum, Dominum Sanctae Romanae Ecclesiae Cardinalem ,"	What way is used to announce the election of a new pope in Latin?
While the incumbents of some sees are regularly made cardinals, and some countries are entitled to at least one cardinal by concordate , no see carries an actual right to the cardinalate, not even if its bishop is a Patriarch	Do any sees carry the right to the cardinalate?
Cardinal bishops are among the most senior prelates of the Catholic Church	Who are among the most senior members of the Catholic Church?
In early times, the privilege of papal election was not reserved to the cardinals, and for centuries the person elected was customarily a Roman priest and never a bishop from elsewhere	In early times, who was generally electied to cardinal?
There are seven suburbicarian sees: Ostia, Albano, Porto and Santa Rufina, Palestrina, Sabina and Mentana, Frascati and Velletri	How many suburbicarian sees?
Since 1962, the cardinal bishops have only a titular relationship with the suburbicarian sees, with no powers of governance over them	Cardinal bishops do not have any powers of governnace over the suburibicarian see since when?
The cardinals of the Church are collectively known as the College of Cardinals	The entire group of cardinals is known as what?
, exemption from being judged by ecclesiastical tribunals of ordinary rank): only the pope is competent to judge them in matters subject to ecclesiastical jurisdiction 	Who is the only person who can judge a Cardinal in regards to laws of the church?
To symbolize their bond with the papacy, the pope gives each newly appointed cardinal a gold ring, which is traditionally kissed by Catholics when greeting a cardinal 	What does the pope give to a new Cardinal?
This custom was discontinued in 1969 and the investiture now takes place with the scarlet biretta	In what year did the practice of donning this item stop?
Eastern Catholic cardinals continue to wear the normal dress appropriate to their liturgical tradition, though some may line their cassocks with scarlet and wear scarlet fascias, or in some cases, wear Eastern-style cassocks entirely of scarlet	Which Cardinals still wear traditional clothing?
When in choir dress, a Latin-rite cardinal wears scarlet garments — the blood-like red symbolizes a cardinal's willingness to die for his faith	What does the color red symbolize in the clothing worn by Cardinals?
If a pope dies before revealing the identity of an in pectore cardinal, the cardinalate expires	What happens if a Cardinal is named in pectore, and the pope dies?
Beginning with the reign of Pope Martin V, cardinals were created without publishing their names until later, termed creati et reservati in pectore	Which pope began using creati et reservati in pectore?
"Though clerics, they were inaccurately called ""lay cardinals"" and were permitted to marry"	"What was a ""lay cardinal"" allowed to do that is not considered a normal status of a Cardinal?"
Even if not a bishop, any cardinal has both actual and honorary precedence over non-cardinal patriarchs, as well as the archbishops and bishops who are not cardinals, but he cannot perform the functions reserved solely to bishops, such as ordination	"A cardinal who does not hold the title of ""bishop"" may not do what?"
Until 1917, it was possible for someone who was not a priest, but only in minor orders, to become a cardinal , but they were enrolled only in the order of cardinal deacons	In what year did the practice of allowing non priests to become Cardinals stop?
He is to collate information about the financial situation of all administrations dependent on the Holy See and present the results to the College of Cardinals, as they gather for the papal conclave	In the time between electing new popes, what is the duty of the cardinal?
The cardinal protodeacon, the senior cardinal deacon in order of appointment to the College of Cardinals, has the privilege of announcing a new pope's election and name from the central balcony at the Basilica of Saint Peter in Vatican City State	Who announces the election of a new pope?
When not celebrating Mass but still serving a liturgical function, such as the semiannual Urbi et Orbi papal blessing, some Papal Masses and some events at Ecumenical Councils, cardinal deacons can be recognized by the dalmatics they would don with the simple white mitre 	What color is the hat?
As of 2005, there were over 50 churches recognized as cardinalatial deaconries, though there were only 30 cardinals of the order of deacons	How many cardinal deacons were there in 2005?
While in 1939 about half were Italian by 1994 the number was reduced to one third	In 1939, how many Cardinals were Italian?
Cardinal deacons derive originally from the seven deacons in the Papal Household and the seven deacons who supervised the Church's works in the districts of Rome during the early Middle Ages, when church administration was effectively the government of Rome and provided all social services	What is the name of one of the deaconries in which Cardinals come from?
The cardinal deacons are the lowest-ranking cardinals	Which cardinals are ranked lowest?
The cardinal who is the longest-serving member of the order of cardinal priests is titled cardinal protopriest	Who can become the cardinal protopriest?
The Dean of the College of Cardinals, or Cardinal-dean, is the primus inter pares of the College of Cardinals, elected by the cardinal bishops holding suburbicarian sees from among their own number, an election, however, that must be approved by the Pope	In the College of Cardinals, the elected Dean needs the approval of who?
Patriarch cardinals do not receive title of a suburbicarian see, and as such they cannot elect the dean or become dean	Patriarch cardinals are not given what title?
Cardinal priests are the most numerous of the three orders of cardinals in the Catholic Church, ranking above the cardinal deacons and below the cardinal bishops	Who are the lowest ranking cardinals in the Catholic church?
Originally, however, this referred to certain key priests of important churches of the Diocese of Rome, who were recognized as the cardinal priests, the important priests chosen by the pope to advise him in his duties as Bishop of Rome 	What was the original definition of a cardinal priest?
While the cardinalate has long been expanded beyond the Roman pastoral clergy and Roman Curia, every cardinal priest has a titular church in Rome, though they may be bishops or archbishops elsewhere, just as cardinal bishops are given one of the suburbicarian dioceses around Rome	Each cardinal priest has what?
In 1587, Pope Sixtus V sought to arrest this growth by fixing the maximum size of the College at 70, including 50 cardinal priests, about twice the historical number	In what year did Pope Sixtus V put a cap on the number of cardinals in the College of Cardinals?
For a period ending in the mid-20th century, long-serving cardinal priests were entitled to fill vacancies that arose among the cardinal bishops, just as cardinal deacons of ten years' standing are still entitled to become cardinal priests	What were long-serving cardinal priests entitled to do ending in the mid-fifteenth century?
A cardinal named in pectore is known only to the pope; not even the cardinal so named is necessarily aware of his elevation, and in any event cannot function as a cardinal while his appointment is in pectore	Which cardinal is known by all the Catholic Church?
The Iranian languages or Iranic languages form a branch of the Indo-Iranian languages, which in turn are a branch of the Indo-European language family	What is another term meaning Iranian languages?
Ethnologue estimates there are 86 Iranian languages, the largest amongst them being Persian, Pashto, Kurdish, and Balochi	How many different Iranian languages exist?
The term Iranian is applied to any language which descends from the ancestral Proto-Iranian language	Iranian languages are all said to be derived from which predecessor?
The use of the term for the Iranian language family was introduced in 1836 by Christian Lassen	When was the phrase Iranian language family first used?
All Iranian languages are descended from a common ancestor, Proto-Iranian	From where did Iranian languages originate?
It was in relative proximity to the other satem ethno-linguistic groups of the Indo-European family, like Thracian, Balto-Slavic and others, and to common Indo-European's original homeland , according to the reconstructed linguistic relationships of common Indo-European	What language family did Thracian and Balto-Slavic belong to?
Proto-Iranian thus dates to some time after Proto-Indo-Iranian break-up, or the early second millennium BCE, as the Old Iranian languages began to break off and evolve separately as the various Iranian tribes migrated and settled in vast areas of southeastern Europe, the Iranian plateau, and Central Asia	Where did early Iranian people establish societies?
The multitude of Middle Iranian languages and peoples indicate that great linguistic diversity must have existed among the ancient speakers of Iranian languages	What characteristic of Middle Iranian civilization is shown by the number of different languages and their speakers?
Genuine Old Persian is best attested in one of the three languages of the Behistun inscription, composed circa 520 BC, and which is the last inscription in which Old Persian is still grammatically correct	In which historical record does Old Persian appear in exemplary form?
The other directly attested Old Iranian dialects are the two forms of Avestan, which take their name from their use in the Avesta, the liturgical texts of indigenous Iranian religion that now goes by the name of Zoroastrianism but in the Avesta itself is simply known as vohu daena 	What ancient religious document exists in two versions and includes Old Iranian language?
Such hypothetical Old Iranian languages include Carduchi and Old Parthian	What language is Carduchi thought to have become?
These terms have little meaning with respect to Old Avestan as that stage of the language may predate the settling of the Iranian peoples into western and eastern groups	What are the two main divisions of Iranian tongues?
These concern the fate of the Proto-Indo-Iranian first-series palatal consonants, *ć and *dź:	What elements of Proto-Indo-Iranian did not diverge according to the ensuing split between eastern and western variants?
(This coincides with the state of affairs in the neighboring Nuristani languages	What languages share a similar situation?
It is possible that other distinct dialect groups were already in existence during this period	What may have also been in use at the time?
"What is known in Iranian linguistic history as the ""Middle Iranian"" era is thought to begin around the 4th century BCE lasting through the 9th century"	When did the age of Middle Iranian come to a close?
The Western family includes Parthian and Middle Persian, while Bactrian, Sogdian, Khwarezmian, Saka, and Old Ossetic fall under the Eastern category	Bactrian, Sogdian, and Saka are examples of what type of Iranian language?
Middle Persian was the official language under the Sasanian dynasty in Iran	What is another term for Middle Persian?
Following the Islamic Conquest of Persia , there were important changes in the role of the different dialects within the Persian Empire	The proliferation of which religion had a profound effect on the development of Iranian languages?
The Islamic conquest also brought with it the adoption of Arabic script for writing Persian and much later, Kurdish, Pashto and Balochi	What was the new form of writing introduced by the spread of Islam?
Arabic spread into some parts of Western Iran , and Turkic languages spread through much of Central Asia, displacing various Iranian languages such as Sogdian and Bactrian in parts of what is today Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan and Tajikistan	What is another term for Western Iran?
Daylighting is sometimes used as the main source of light during daytime in buildings	What is used a main source of light for a building during the day?
Indoor lighting is usually accomplished using light fixtures, and is a key part of interior design	What type of fixtures do you use for indoor lighting?
This is often done with fluorescent lighting or rope light, occasionally with neon lighting, and recently with LED strip lighting	When was fluorescent lighting first available?
Recessed lighting is popular, with fixtures mounted into the ceiling structure so as to appear flush with it	What type of lighting can be mounted in the ceiling to appear flush?
As early as 400,000 BCE, fire was kindled in the caves of Peking Man	Peking man kindled fire as early as?
The next major drop in price came about with the incandescent light bulb powered by electricity	What type of lighting was powered by electricity?
Lighting fixtures come in a wide variety of styles for various functions	What can come in a wide variety of styles for various functions?
An important property of light fixtures is the luminous efficacy or wall-plug efficiency, meaning the amount of usable light emanating from the fixture per used energy, usually measured in lumen per watt	Luminous efficacy is measure in what unit?
An incandescent bulb has a color temperature around 2800 to 3000 Kelvin; daylight is around 6400 Kelvin	How many Kelvins is daylight measured at?
Track lighting, invented by Lightolier, was popular at one period of time because it was much easier to install than recessed lighting, and individual fixtures are decorative and can be easily aimed at a wall	Who invented track lighting?
A torchiere is an uplight intended for ambient lighting	What is a uplight used for ambient lighting?
The portable or table lamp is probably the most common fixture, found in many homes and offices	What is one type of fixture commonly found in offices?
This would probably fall under accent lighting, though in a dark nightclub it could be considered general lighting	When would neon lighting be considered general lighting?
In a movie theater, steps in the aisles are usually marked with a row of small lights for convenience and safety, when the film has started and the other lights are off	What do steps in move theater aisles have for safety markings?
Street Lights are used to light roadways and walkways at night	What is used to light walkways at night?
Floodlights can be used to illuminate outdoor playing fields or work zones during nighttime hours	What kind of light is used to illuminate outdoor playing fields at night?
Sometimes security lighting can be used along roadways in urban areas, or behind homes or commercial facilities	Extremely bright lights used to deter crime are called?
Entry lights can be used outside to illuminate and signal the entrance to a property	What type of light would be used illuminate the entrance to a property?
Tail and brake lights are red and emit light to the rear so as to reveal the vehicle's direction of travel to following drivers	What color are tail lights?
Commonly called 'light bulbs', lamps are the removable and replaceable part of a light fixture, which converts electrical energy into electromagnetic radiation	What is the removable and replaceable part of a light fixture?
Lighting design as it applies to the built environment is known as 'architectural lighting design'	What is designing as it applies to built environments?
In some design instances, materials used on walls and furniture play a key role in the lighting effect< for example dark paint tends to absorb light, making the room appear smaller and more dim than it is, whereas light paint does the opposite	What type of paint tends to absorb light?
Photometric studies are often used to simulate lighting designs for projects before they are built or renovated	What type of study is used to simulate lighting designs?
A set of lighting cues are prepared so that the lighting operator can control the lights in step with the performance; complex theatre lighting systems use computer control of lighting instruments	What is prepared prior to the performance for the lighting operator?
Motion picture and television production use many of the same tools and methods of stage lighting	Motion pictures employee the similar lighting techniques as which other form of lighting?
The basic SI unit of measurement is the candela , which describes the luminous intensity, all other photometric units are derived from the candela	What is the basic SI unit of measurement?
It is analogous to the radiometric unit watts per square metre, but with the power at each wavelength weighted according to the luminosity function, a standardized model of human visual brightness perception	What is a standardized model of human visual brightness?
The Unified Glare Rating , the Visual Comfort Probability, and the Daylight Glare Index are some of the most well-known methods of measurement	What does UGR stand for?
"To define light source color properties, the lighting industry predominantly relies on two metrics, correlated color temperature , commonly used as an indication of the apparent ""warmth"" or ""coolness"" of the light emitted by a source, and color rendering index , an indication of the light source’s ability to make objects appear natural"	What does CCT stand for?
For example, in order to meet the expectations for good color rendering in retail applications, research suggests using the well-established CRI along with another metric called gamut area index 	What does GAI stand for?
Dosimeters measure an individual's or an object's exposure to something in the environment, such as light dosimeters and ultraviolet dosimeters	What is typically used to measure light?
In order to specifically measure the amount of light entering the eye, personal circadian light meter called the Daysimeter has been developed	What measures the amount of light entering the eye?
The Daysimeter can gather data for up to 30 days for analysis	How many days can the Daysimeter gather for analysis?
Specification of illumination requirements is the basic concept of deciding how much illumination is required for a given task	What is a basic concept of deciding how much illumination is required for a given task? 
Lighting control systems reduce energy usage and cost by helping to provide light only when and where it is needed	What can help reduce energy and usage cost by providing light only when or where it is needed? 
Many newer control systems are using wireless mesh open standards , which provides benefits including easier installation and interoperability with other standards-based building control systems (e	What type of standard do newer control systems use? 
Occupancy sensors to allow operation for whenever someone is within the area being scanned can control lighting	What sensor controls light with motion sensors? 
Daylighting is the oldest method of interior lighting	What is the oldest method of interior lighting? 
In recent years light emitting diodes are becoming increasingly efficient leading to an extraordinary increase in the use of solid state lighting	What is a form of solid state lighting?
Beyond the energy factors being considered, it is important not to over-design illumination, lest adverse health effects such as headache frequency, stress, and increased blood pressure be induced by the higher lighting levels	What can cause health effects such headache frequency?
Similarly, designing lighting systems that maximize the right amount of light at the appropriate time of day for the elderly may help relieve symptoms of Alzheimer's Disease	Maximizing the right amount of light at the appropriate time for elderly may help systems of what? 
A study conducted in 1972 and 1981, documented by Robert Ulrich, surveyed 23 surgical patients assigned to rooms looking out on a natural scene	Who documented 23 surgical patients assigned rooms looking out on a natural scene?
Alison Jing Xu, assistant professor of management at the University of Toronto Scarborough and Aparna Labroo of Northwestern University conducted a series of studies analyzing the correlation between lighting and human emotion	What University was Alision Jing Xu the assistant professor of management at?
In 1849, Dr	What year was it discovered that petroleum could be distilled into kerosene? 
Compact fluorescent lamps use less power to supply the same amount of light as an incandescent lamp, however they contain mercury which is a dispose hazard	What does CFL stand for?
According to the Energy Saving Trust, LED lamps use only 10% power compared to a standard incandescent bulb, where compact fluorescent lamps use 20% and energy saving halogen lamps 70%	How much more power does a standard incandescent bulb use compared to LED?
Light pollution is a growing problem in reaction to excess light being given off by numerous signs, houses, and buildings	What is known as artificial light that is excessive or intrusive?
If natural light is not present searchlights and flares can be used	In a battlefield does not have natural light what could you use instead? 
Flares can also be used by the military to mark positions, usually for targeting, but laser-guided and GPS weapons have eliminated this need for the most part	What can be used by military for targeting?
The International Commission on Illumination is an international authority and standard defining organization on color and lighting	What does the CIE stand for?
The Illuminating Engineering Society of North America , in conjunction with organizations like ANSI and ASHRAE, publishes guidelines, standards, and handbooks that allow categorization of the illumination needs of different built environments	What does the IESNA stand for? 
The International Association of Lighting Designers is an organization which focuses on the advancement of lighting design education and the recognition of independent professional lighting designers	What does IALD stand for?
The Professional Lighting Designers Association , formerly known as ELDA is an organisation focusing on the promotion of the profession of Architectural Lighting Design	What does PLDA stand for?
The National Council on Qualifications for the Lighting Professions offers the Lighting Certification Examination which tests rudimentary lighting design principles	Who offers the Lighting Certification Examination? 
The Professional Lighting And Sound Association is a UK-based trade organisation representing the 500+ individual and corporate members drawn from the technical services sector	What does PLASA stand for? 
Separation of powers is a political doctrine originating in the writings of Montesquieu in The Spirit of the Laws where he urged for a constitutional government with three separate branches of government	Which political practice did Montesquieu originate?
During the Age of Enlightenment, philosophers such as John Locke advocated the principle in their writings, whereas others, such as Thomas Hobbes, strongly opposed it	Which Enlightenment thinker supported the idea of separation of powers?
 Under the UK Westminster system, based on parliamentary sovereignty and responsible government, Parliament , House of Lords and House of Commons) was the supreme lawmaking authority	What country's government, on which the US government was modeled, did not formally implement separation of powers?
Congress has the sole power to legislate for the United States	What is the only branch of U.S. government imbued with lawmaking abilities?
) 1, 42 	In what year was Wayman v. Southard tried by the U.S. Supreme Court?
It was not until the 1930s that the Supreme Court held a delegation of authority unconstitutional	When was the first time that a Congressional attempt at delegating lawmaking responsibility was found to be in violation of the Constitution?
") the president becomes the Commander in Chief of the Army and Navy, Militia of several states when called into service, has power to make treaties and appointments to office ""with the Advice and Consent of the Senate,"" receive Ambassadors and Public Ministers, and ""take care that the laws be faithfully executed"" (Section 3"	Which branches of the national military does the U.S. president command?
Congress often writes legislation to restrain executive officials to the performance of their duties, as laid out by the laws Congress passes	To what does congress attempt to limit executive officials?
Judicial power—the power to decide cases and controversies—is vested in the Supreme Court and inferior courts established by Congress	In what branch is the ability to try legal cases placed?
"Congress may establish ""legislative courts,"" which do not take the form of judicial agencies or commissions, whose members do not have the same security of tenure or compensation as the constitutional court judges"	What kind of courts did congress establish?
The Vice President serves as president of the Senate, but he may only vote to break a tie	Who can determine a date of adjournment if congress cannot agree?
The president, as noted above, appoints judges with the Senate's advice and consent	Who has the power to issue a pardon?
The president is the civilian Commander in Chief of the Army and Navy of the United States	Who is the commander and chief of the Army?
Courts check both the executive branch and the legislative branch through judicial review	Who is responsible for judicial review?
A common misperception is that the Supreme Court is the only court that may determine constitutionality; the power is exercised even by the inferior courts	Which courts decisions are binding across the entire United States?
The power to review the constitutionality of laws may be limited by Congress, which has the power to set the jurisdiction of the courts	Who can limit judicial review of a law?
The Chief Justice presides in the Senate during a president's impeachment trial	Who presides over an impeachment trial?
"However, James Madison wrote in Federalist 51, regarding the ability of each branch to defend itself from actions by the others, that ""it is not possible to give to each department an equal power of self-defense"	Who wrote that the legislative branch was the predominate branch of government?
Throughout America's history dominance of one of the three branches has essentially been a see-saw struggle between Congress and the president	Immediately following the civil war which branch of government was seen to have the greater amount of power?
The first six presidents of the United States did not make extensive use of the veto power: George Washington only vetoed two bills, James Monroe one, and John Adams, Thomas Jefferson and John Quincy Adams none	How many bills did George Washington veto?
""" Congress, however, managed to override fifteen of Johnson's twenty-nine vetoes"	How many of Andrew Johnson's veto's were over turned by Congress
Grover Cleveland, the first Democratic President following Johnson, attempted to restore the power of his office	Who was the first president to veto over 400 bills?
Congress had granted Franklin Roosevelt sweeping authority; in Panama Refining v	Which President attempted to pack the supreme court?
Richard Nixon used national security as a basis for his expansion of power	Under what basis did Richard Nixon assert an expansion of the power of the President?
"That is, it is argued that ""checks and balances"" apply to the Judicial branch as well as to the other branches"	What term is used when one branch of government must get approval from at least one other branch of government?
Although in practice these matters are delegated to the Supreme Court, the Congress holds these powers and delegates them to the Supreme Court only for convenience in light of the Supreme Court's expertise, but can withdraw that delegation at any time	Who has congress delegated the responsibility of establishing the rules of conduct for the courts to? 
An example of the second view at the State level is found in the view of the Florida Supreme Court, that only the Florida Supreme Court may license and regulate attorneys appearing before the courts of Florida, and only the Florida Supreme Court may set rules for procedures in the Florida courts	Who may license and regulate attorneys in Florida?
One may claim that the judiciary has historically been the weakest of the three branches	Which branch may be historically claimed to be the strongest of the branches of government?
Many political scientists believe that separation of powers is a decisive factor in what they see as a limited degree of American exceptionalism	What do many political scientists think is a factor in an unlimited degree in American exceptionalism?
Architectural works, in the material form of buildings, are often perceived as cultural symbols and as works of art	What is the latin word for architecture?
The earliest surviving written work on the subject of architecture is De architectura, by the Roman architect Vitruvius in the early 1st century AD	What is the oldest architecture plans that has survived?
The notion of style in the arts was not developed until the 16th century, with the writing of Vasari: by the 18th century, his Lives of the Most Excellent Painters, Sculptors, and Architects had been translated into Italian, French, Spanish and English	When were the styles of arts created?
In the early 19th century, Augustus Welby Northmore Pugin wrote Contrasts that, as the titled suggested, contrasted the modern, industrial world, which he disparaged, with an idealized image of neo-medieval world	Who wrote the book Contrasts?
The 19th-century English art critic, John Ruskin, in his Seven Lamps of Architecture, published 1849, was much narrower in his view of what constituted architecture	Who wrote Seven Lamps of Architecture?
"His work goes on to state that a building is not truly a work of architecture unless it is in some way ""adorned"""	Does Ruskin believe all buildings are works of architecture?
"On the difference between the ideals of architecture and mere construction, the renowned 20th-century architect Le Corbusier wrote: ""You employ stone, wood, and concrete, and with these materials you build houses and palaces: that is construction"	What century was the architect Le Corbusier in?
"""Function"" came to be seen as encompassing all criteria of the use, perception and enjoyment of a building, not only practical but also aesthetic, psychological and cultural"	"What term replaced Vitruvius' term ""utility""?"
Among the philosophies that have influenced modern architects and their approach to building design are rationalism, empiricism, structuralism, poststructuralism, and phenomenology	Rationalism and empiricism are examples of what?
In the late 20th century a new concept was added to those included in the compass of both structure and function, the consideration of sustainability, hence sustainable architecture	When was the conecept, Sustainable architecture used?
Building first evolved out of the dynamics between needs (shelter, security, worship, etc	What dynamic needs were the reason for building to be done?
Indeed, vernacular buildings make up most of the built world that people experience every day	What type of buildings are are built mostly through out the world?
In many ancient civilizations, such as those of Egypt and Mesopotamia, architecture and urbanism reflected the constant engagement with the divine and the supernatural, and many ancient cultures resorted to monumentality in architecture to represent symbolically the political power of the ruler, the ruling elite, or the state itself	What civilizations used the divine and supernatural in their architecture?
Early Asian writings on architecture include the Kao Gong Ji of China from the 7th–5th centuries BCE; the Shilpa Shastras of ancient India and Manjusri Vasthu Vidya Sastra of Sri Lanka	Name one Asian architectural writer.
In many Asian countries, pantheistic religion led to architectural forms that were designed specifically to enhance the natural landscape	What religion led to architectural changes in many Asian countries?
The widespread application of the pointed arch was to influence European architecture of the Medieval period	What cultures architecture inspired Islamic architecture to use pointed arch's?
The major architectural undertakings were the buildings of abbeys and cathedrals	What were the most important buildings of the time?
In Renaissance Europe, from about 1400 onwards, there was a revival of Classical learning accompanied by the development of Renaissance Humanism which placed greater emphasis on the role of the individual in society than had been the case during the Medieval period	When was Renaissance Humanism developed?
Architecture has to do with planning and designing form, space and ambience to reflect functional, technical, social, environmental and aesthetic considerations	What sort of considerations does architectural design take into account? 
"Nunzia Rondanini stated, ""Through its aesthetic dimension architecture goes beyond the functional aspects that it has in common with other human sciences"	Who said that architecture was able extend beyond function?
"To restrict the meaning of formalism to art for art's sake is not only reactionary; it can also be a purposeless quest for perfection or originality which degrades form into a mere instrumentality"""	What is a reactionary thing to limit formalism's meaning to?
The architecture and urbanism of the Classical civilizations such as the Greek and the Roman evolved from civic ideals rather than religious or empirical ones and new building types emerged	From what ideals did Classical architecture emerge?
Texts on architecture have been written since ancient time	When were architectural writings first made?
In Europe during the Medieval period, guilds were formed by craftsmen to organise their trades and written contracts have survived, particularly in relation to ecclesiastical buildings	What organizations were created by Medieval craftsmen?
A revival of the Classical style in architecture was accompanied by a burgeoning of science and engineering which affected the proportions and structure of buildings	What aspects of buildings did science and engineering have an effect on?
With the emerging knowledge in scientific fields and the rise of new materials and technology, architecture and engineering began to separate, and the architect began to concentrate on aesthetics and the humanist aspects, often at the expense of technical aspects of building design	What two fields began to grow apart?
Meanwhile, the Industrial Revolution laid open the door for mass production and consumption	What started with the Industrial Revolution?
House builders could use current architectural design in their work by combining features found in pattern books and architectural journals	What kind of books did housebuilders use?
Around the beginning of the 20th century, a general dissatisfaction with the emphasis on revivalist architecture and elaborate decoration gave rise to many new lines of thought that served as precursors to Modern Architecture	At what century's start did revivalist fall into disfavor? 
When modern architecture was first practiced, it was an avant-garde movement with moral, philosophical, and aesthetic underpinnings	What kind of movement was modern architecture in the beginning?
Architects such as Frank Lloyd Wright developed Organic architecture, in which the form was defined by its environment and purpose, with an aim to promote harmony between human habitation and the natural world with prime examples being Robie House and Fallingwater	Who was instrumental in creating Organic architecture?
Architects such as Mies van der Rohe, Philip Johnson and Marcel Breuer worked to create beauty based on the inherent qualities of building materials and modern construction techniques, trading traditional historic forms for simplified geometric forms, celebrating the new means and methods made possible by the Industrial Revolution, including steel-frame construction, which gave birth to high-rise superstructures	What made it possible to design architecture through new means and methods?
Many architects resisted modernism, finding it devoid of the decorative richness of historical styles	What aspect of historical styles did a lot of architects find lacking in modernist styles?
One such reaction to the cold aesthetic of modernism and Brutalism is the school of metaphoric architecture, which includes such things as biomorphism and zoomorphic architecture, both using nature as the primary source of inspiration and design	What school was a response to Brutalism?
Beginning in the late 1950s and 1960s, architectural phenomenology emerged as an important movement in the early reaction against modernism, with architects like Charles Moore in the USA, Christian Norberg-Schulz in Norway, and Ernesto Nathan Rogers and Vittorio Gregotti in Italy, who collectively popularized an interest in a new contemporary architecture aimed at expanding human experience using historical buildings as models and precedents	When was the start of the architectural phenomenology movement?
Since the 1980s, as the complexity of buildings began to increase , the field of architecture became multi-disciplinary with specializations for each project type, technological expertise or project delivery methods	About when did architecture begin specializing?
Environmental sustainability has become a mainstream issue, with profound effect on the architectural profession	What issue has moved to the forefront in recent years?
Concurrently, the recent movements of New Urbanism, Metaphoric architecture and New Classical Architecture promote a sustainable approach towards construction, that appreciates and develops smart growth, architectural tradition and classical design	What are three new movements that have a focus on sustainability?
The Human Development Index is a composite statistic of life expectancy, education, and income per capita indicators, which are used to rank countries into four tiers of human development	Which three statistics does the HDI compile?
The 2010 Human Development Report introduced an Inequality-adjusted Human Development Index 	In what year did the Human Development Report introduce the IHDI?
"These were devised and launched by Pakistani economist Mahbub ul Haq in 1990 and had the explicit purpose ""to shift the focus of development economics from national income accounting to people-centered policies"""	In what year did Mahbub ul Haq devise and launch the HDI?
LE: Life expectancy at birth MYS: Mean years of schooling EYS: Expected years of schooling GNIpc: Gross national income at purchasing power parity per capita	What does LE stand for?
The formula defining the HDI is promulgated by the United Nations Development Programme 	What entity makes the defining formula for the HDI well-known?
The 2015 Human Development Report by the United Nations Development Program was released on December 14, 2015, and calculates HDI values based on estimates for 2014	On what date was the 2015 Human Development Report released?
The 2014 Human Development Report by the United Nations Development Program was released on July 24, 2014, and calculates HDI values based on estimates for 2013	On what date was the 2014 Human Development Report released?
"The Inequality-adjusted Human Development Index is a ""measure of the average level of human development of people in a society once inequality is taken into account"	What does the IHDI specifically take into account?
Countries in the top quartile of HDI with a missing IHDI: New Zealand, Singapore, Hong Kong, Liechtenstein, Brunei, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Andorra, United Arab Emirates, Bahrain, Cuba, and Kuwait	Which Caribbean nation is in the top quartile of HDI ?
Some countries were not included for various reasons, primarily the lack of necessary data	What is the main reason that countries were excluded from the 2014 report?
The 2013 Human Development Report by the United Nations Development Program was released on March 14, 2013, and calculates HDI values based on estimates for 2012	On what date was the 2013 Human Development Report released?
"The Inequality-adjusted Human Development Index is a ""measure of the average level of human development of people in a society once inequality is taken into account"	"Does the IHDI measure the ""average"" or the ""potential"" level of human development?"
Some countries were not included for various reasons, mainly the unavailability of certain crucial data	What is the main reason that countries were excluded from the 2011 report?
The 2010 Human Development Report by the United Nations Development Program was released on November 4, 2010, and calculates HDI values based on estimates for 2010	On what date was the 2010 Human Development Report released?
The 2010 Human Development Report was the first to calculate an Inequality-adjusted Human Development Index , which factors in inequalities in the three basic dimensions of human development 	In the IHDI, inequality is factored into what three human development dimensions?
Some countries were not included for various reasons, mainly the unavailability of certain crucial data	What is the main reason that countries were excluded from the 2010 report?
The 2009 Human Development Report by UNDP was released on October 5, 2009, and covers the period up to 2007	On what date was the 2009 Human Development Report released?
Some countries were not included for various reasons, such as being a non-UN member or unable or unwilling to provide the necessary data at the time of publication	What three reasons were mentioned for countries being excluded?
"This so-called ""statistical update"" covered the period up to 2006 and was published without an accompanying Human Development Report"	What type of update was released on December 18, 2008?
The Human Development Report for 2007/2008 was launched in Brasília, Brazil, on November 27, 2007	On what date was the 2007/2008 Human Development Report released?
This marked improvement at the bottom was offset with a decrease in HDI of high income countries	Which countries experienced a decrease in HDI?
All 22 countries in that category are located in Africa	On which continent are all 22 of the low development countries located?
"Seven countries were promoted to this category this year, leaving the ""medium development"" group: Albania, Belarus, Brazil, Libya, Macedonia, Russia and Saudi Arabia"	Which South American country was included among the seven promoted countries?
On the following table, green arrows represent an increase in ranking over the previous study, while red arrows represent a decrease in ranking	If there is a decrease in a country's ranking, which indicator will be present?
Norway has been ranked the highest twelve times, Canada eight times, followed by Japan which has been ranked highest three times	Which country has been ranked highest the most number of times?
"The Human Development Index has been criticized on a number of grounds including alleged ideological biases towards egalitarianism and so-called ""Western models of development"", failure to include any ecological considerations, lack of consideration of technological development or contributions to the human civilization, focusing exclusively on national performance and ranking, lack of attention to development from a global perspective, measurement error of the underlying statistics, and on the UNDP's changes in formula which can lead to severe misclassification in the categorisation of 'low', 'medium', 'high' or 'very high' human development countries"	The HDI has been criticized for focusing exclusively on what?
They identified three sources of data error which are due to data updating, formula revisions and thresholds to classify a country’s development status and conclude that 11%, 21% and 34% of all countries can be interpreted as currently misclassified in the development bins due to the three sources of data error, respectively	How many economists were cited as pointing out data errors in the HDI?
The HDI has extended its geographical coverage: David Hastings, of the United Nations Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific, published a report geographically extending the HDI to 230+ economies, whereas the UNDP HDI for 2009 enumerates 182 economies and coverage for the 2010 HDI dropped to 169 countries	How many countries were included in the 2009 HDI?
The changes in rank are not relative to the HDI list above, but are according to the source (p	What is relative to the HDI list?
Note: The green arrows , red arrows , and blue dashes represent changes in rank when compared to the new 2012 data HDI for 2011 – published in the 2012 report	What dashes do not represent changes in rank? 
Countries in the top quartile of HDI with a missing IHDI: New Zealand, Chile, Japan, Hong Kong, Singapore, Taiwan, Liechtenstein, Brunei, Andorra, Qatar, Barbados, United Arab Emirates, and Seychelles	"What is the abbreviation for ""very low human development"" "
The 2011 Human Development Report was released on 2 November 2011, and calculated HDI values based on estimates for 2011	Which year was used for estimates in the 2012 report?
Below is a list of countries in the top quartile by Inequality-adjusted Human Development Index 	What does HIMI stand for? 
Note: The green arrows , red arrows , and blue dashes represent changes in rank when compared to the 2011 HDI list, for countries listed in both rankings	What dashes do not represent changes in rank?
Countries in the top quartile of HDI with a missing IHDI include: New Zealand, Liechtenstein, Japan, Hong Kong, Singapore, Taiwan, United Arab Emirates, Andorra, Brunei, Malta, Qatar, Bahrain, Chile, Argentina and Barbados	Which Caribbean nation is in the bottom quartile of HDI ?
Some countries were not included for various reasons, such as being a non-UN member, unable, or unwilling to provide the necessary data at the time of publication	Why were all countries included?
Some definitions of southern Europe, also known as Mediterranean Europe, include the countries of the Iberian peninsula , the Italian peninsula, southern France and Greece	What is another term for southern Europe
Different methods can be used to define southern Europe, including its political, economic, and cultural attributes	What are three characteristics that can be employed to characterize southern Europe?
The Mediterranean climate covers much of Portugal, Spain, Southeast France, Italy, Croatia, Albania, Montenegro, Greece, the Western and Southern coastal regions of Turkey as well as the Mediterranean islands	What kind of climate is exemplary of southern Europe?
Cooler climates can be found in certain parts of Southern European countries, for example within the mountain ranges of Spain and Italy	Where do colder areas occur within southern Europe?
Southern Europe's flora is that of the Mediterranean Region, one of the phytochoria recognized by Armen Takhtajan	What is a word that can be used to describe the plant life of southern Europe?
The period known as classical antiquity began with the rise of the city-states of Ancient Greece	What era started when Ancient Greek cities became self-governing entities?
By 300 AD the Roman Empire was divided into the Western Roman Empire based in Rome, and the Eastern Roman Empire based in Constantinople	Where was the headquarters of the Western Roman Empire?
During the Middle Ages, the Eastern Roman Empire survived, though modern historians refer to this state as the Byzantine Empire	What is the Eastern Roman Empire in the Middle Ages called by contemporary scholars?
The period known as the Crusades, a series of religiously motivated military expeditions originally intended to bring the Levant back into Christian rule, began	What is the name of the period of armed incursions undertaken in the name of Christianity?
The Late Middle Ages represented a period of upheaval in Europe	What era was characterized by turmoil in Europe?
Beginning roughly in the 14th century in Florence, and later spreading through Europe with the development of the printing press, a Renaissance of knowledge challenged traditional doctrines in science and theology, with the Arabic texts and thought bringing about rediscovery of classical Greek and Roman knowledge	When was the start of the period known as the Renaissance?
The Reconquista of Portugal and Spain led to a series of oceanic explorations resulting in the Age of Discovery that established direct links with Africa, the Americas, and Asia, while religious wars continued to be fought in Europe, which ended in 1648 with the Peace of Westphalia	Which countries initiated the Age of Exploration following the Reconquista?
European overseas expansion led to the rise of colonial empires, producing the Columbian Exchange	What resulted from Europe's exploration of the New World?
The period between 1815 and 1871 saw a large number of revolutionary attempts and independence wars	When were there many struggles for independence or overthrowing prevailing governments?
The outbreak of World War I in 1914 was precipitated by the rise of nationalism in Southeastern Europe as the Great Powers took up sides	In what year did World War I begin?
The Nazi regime under Adolf Hitler came to power in 1933, and along with Mussolini's Italy sought to gain control of the continent by the Second World War	Which group took control in 1933?
The European Union involved the division of powers, with taxation, health and education handled by the nation states, while the EU had charge of market rules, competition, legal standards and environmentalism	What does EU stand for?
The most widely spoken family of languages in southern Europe are the Romance languages, the heirs of Latin, which have spread from the Italian peninsula, and are emblematic of Southwestern Europe	What is the most common group of languages spoken in Mediterranean Europe?
The Hellenic languages or Greek language are widely spoken in Greece and in the Greek part of Cyprus	What is another term for Greek?
Serbian is spoken in Serbia, Bosnia, and Croatia; Bulgarian is spoken in Bulgaria; Croatian is spoken in Croatia and Bosnia; Bosnian is spoken in Bosnia; Slovene is spoken in Slovenia; and Macedonian is spoken in Macedonia	What language is used in Macedonia?
English is used as a second language in parts of Southern Europe	What is considered a de facto second language in Mediterranean Europe?
Albanian is spoken in Albania, Kosovo, Macedoonia, and parts of Greece	What language can be found used in Kosovo and Albania?
The predominant religion is southern Europe is Christianity	What is the main faith practiced in southern Europe?
For its official works and publications, the United Nations Organization groups countries under a classification of regions	What term is used by the UNO to divide groups of nations?
European Travel Commission divides the European region on the basis of Tourism Decision Metrics model	What does TDM stand for?
BBC Television is a service of the British Broadcasting Corporation	What is the acronym for British Broadcasting Corporation?
The domestic TV BBC television channels are broadcast without any commercial advertising and collectively they account for more than 30% of all UK viewing	What percentage of viewership across the UK is constituted by the BBC?
As well as being a broadcaster, the corporation also produces a large number of its own programmes in-house, thereby ranking as one of the world's largest television production companies	As a result of shows that the BBC itself creates, it is one of the biggest what?
made Britain's first television broadcast, on 30 September 1929 from its studio in Long Acre, London, via the BBC's London transmitter, using the electromechanical system pioneered by John Logie Baird	On what date was the first TV show seen in the UK?
The BBC began its own regular television programming from the basement of Broadcasting House, London, on 22 August 1932	Where was the BBC's first studio located?
After a series of test transmissions and special broadcasts that began in August, regular BBC television broadcasts officially resumed on 1 October 1936, from a converted wing of Alexandra Palace in London, which housed two studios, various scenery stores, make-up areas, dressing rooms, offices, and the transmitter itself, now broadcasting on the VHF band	Where did the BBC continue broadcasting from in October of 1936?
The two systems were to run on a trial basis for six months; early television sets supported both resolutions	For how long did the BBC alternate different broadcasting systems?
Initially, the station's range was officially a 40 kilometres radius of the Alexandra Palace transmitter—in practice, however, transmissions could be picked up a good deal further away, and on one occasion in 1938 were picked up by engineers at RCA in New York, who were experimenting with a British television set	How far from its studio could the BBC's broadcast originally reach?
Mechanically scanned, 30-line television broadcasts by John Logie Baird began in 1929, using the BBC transmitter in London, and by 1930 a regular schedule of programmes was transmitted from the BBC antenna in Brookmans Park	Where was the BBC's transmitter located in 1930?
On 1 September 1939, two days before Britain declared war on Germany, the station was taken off air with little warning; the government was concerned that the VHF transmissions would act as a beacon to enemy aircraft homing in on London	What did the British fear could provide guidance to the German air force?
According to figures from Britain's Radio Manufacturers Association, 18,999 television sets had been manufactured from 1936 to September 1939, when production was halted by the war	How many TVs were made between 1936 and the start of the war in 1939?
Jasmine Bligh, one of the original announcers, made the first announcement, saying, 'Good afternoon everybody	Who was the first person to speak on BBC when it was turned back on following World War II?
Postwar broadcast coverage was extended to Birmingham in 1949 with the opening of the Sutton Coldfield transmitting station, and by the mid-1950s most of the country was covered, transmitting a 405-line interlaced image on VHF	What city received BBC signals starting in 1949?
The BBC Television Service showed popular programming, including drama, comedies, documentaries, game shows, and soap operas, covering a wide range of genres and regularly competed with ITV to become the channel with the highest ratings for that week	What was the name of the BBC changed to in 1960?
BBC TV was renamed BBC1 in 1964, after the launch of BBC2 , the third television station for the UK; its remit, to provide more niche programming	What was the first station launched after the original BBC?
On 1 July 1967, BBC Two became the first television channel in Europe to broadcast regularly in colour, using the West German PAL system that is still in use today although being gradually superseded by digital systems	What was the first station to show programs in color?
In 1967 Tom and Jerry cartoons first aired on BBC One, with around 2 episodes shown every evening at 17:00, with occasional morning showings on CBBC	When was the first broadcast of Tom and Jerry on BBC One?
2	How many episodes of Tom and Jerry were shown in the evenings?
David Attenborough was later granted sabbatical leave from his job as Controller to work with the BBC Natural History Unit which had existed since the 1950s	Which group did David Attenborough join while on sabbatical?
England's BBC One output is split up into fifteen regions , which exist mainly to produce local news programming, but also occasionally opt out of the network to show programmes of local importance 	How many different areas does BBC One accommodate with customized broadcasting?
Programmes, such as the politically fuelled Give My Head Peace and the soap opera River City , have been created specifically to cater for some viewers in their respective nations, who may have found programmes created for English audiences irrelevant	What is the name of a political show shown on BBC in Northern Ireland?
The BBC has come under pressure to commission more programmes from independent British production companies, and indeed is legally required to source 25% of its output from such companies by the terms of the Broadcasting Act 1990	How much of its programming must the BBC obtain from other content producers?
The BBC also introduced Ceefax, the first teletext service, starting in 1974	What kind of service was Ceefax?
In March 2003 the BBC announced that from the end of May 2003 it intended to transmit all eight of its domestic television channels unencrypted from the Astra 2D satellite	When did the BBC say it would start using a satellite to transit its signal?
"While the ""footprint"" of the Astra 2D satellite was smaller than that of Astra 2A, from which it was previously broadcast encrypted, it meant that viewers with appropriate equipment were able to receive BBC channels ""free-to-air"" over much of Western Europe"	With the right tools, what area could get free BBC broadcasts from Astra 2D?
On 5 July 2004, the BBC celebrated the fiftieth anniversary of its television news bulletins 	When was the 50th anniversary of BBC news broadcasts?
The BBC Television department headed by Jana Bennett was absorbed into a new, much larger group; BBC Vision, in late 2006	Who was the leader of BBC Television in 2006?
In 2008, the BBC began experimenting with live streaming of certain channels in the UK, and in November 2008, all standard BBC television channels were made available to watch online	When did the BBC start exploring the use of internet streaming?
In February 2016, it was confirmed by BBC Worldwide that Keeping Up Appearances is the corporation's most exported television programme, being sold nearly 1000 times to overseas broadcasters	As of early 2016, what BBC show has been sold outside of the country the most times?
The BBC domestic television channels do not broadcast advertisements; they are instead funded by a television licence fee which TV viewers are required to pay annually	How often are people required to remit the TV license fee?
As a division within the BBC, Television was formerly known as BBC Vision for a few years in the early 21st century, until its name reverted to Television in 2013	When did BBC Vision change back to BBC Television?
BBC Japan was a general entertainment channel, which operated between December 2004 and April 2006	When did BBC Japan begin broadcasting?
Arnold Alois Schwarzenegger ; born July 30, 1947) is an Austrian-American actor, filmmaker, businessman, investor, author, philanthropist, activist, former professional bodybuilder and politician	What's Arnold Schwarzenegger's birth date?
Schwarzenegger began weight training at the age of 15	How old was Schwarzenegger when he started bodybuilding?
In 2011, Schwarzenegger completed his second term as governor	What year marked the end of Schwarzenegger's second term in the governor's office?
Schwarzenegger was born in Thal, a village bordering the city of Graz in Styria, Austria and christened Arnold Alois	What country was Schwarzenegger born in?
Gustav had a preference for his elder son, Meinhard , over Arnold	What was Schwarzenegger's older brother's name?
He picked up his first barbell in 1960, when his soccer coach took his team to a local gym	What sport Schwarzenegger played led to a trip to the gym that sparked his love of weightlifting?
On May 20, 1971, his brother, Meinhard, died in a car accident	What year did Schwarzenegger's brother die?
"In an interview with Fortune in 2004, Schwarzenegger told how he suffered what ""would now be called child abuse"" at the hands of his father: ""My hair was pulled"	What magazine revealed the details of Schwarzenegger's childhood punishments in 2004?
""" Schwarzenegger made his first plane trip in 1966, attending the NABBA Mr"	When did Schwarzenegger take an airplane for the first time ever?
Also in 1966, Schwarzenegger had the opportunity to meet childhood idol Reg Park, who became his friend and mentor	Which of the bodybuilders Schwarzenegger idolized as a kid did he meet in 1966?
since the age of 10, and saw bodybuilding as the avenue through which to do so, realized his dream by moving to the United States in September 1968 at the age of 21, speaking little English	How old was Schwarzenegger when he started hoping he'd move to America?
"LA Weekly would later say in 2002 that Schwarzenegger is the most famous immigrant in America, who ""overcame a thick Austrian accent and transcended the unlikely background of bodybuilding to become the biggest movie star in the world in the 1990s"""	What magazine called Schwarzenegger America's most famous immigrant?
In 1977, Schwarzenegger's autobiography/weight-training guide Arnold: The Education of a Bodybuilder was published and became a huge success	What's the title of Schwarzenegger's 1977 book?
"He tells that during this time he ran into a friend who told him that he was teaching Transcendental Meditation , which prompted Schwarzenegger to reveal he had been struggling with anxiety for the first time in his life: ""Even today, I still benefit from because I don't merge and bring things together and see everything as one big problem"	What does TM stand for?
Schwarzenegger is considered among the most important figures in the history of bodybuilding, and his legacy is commemorated in the Arnold Classic annual bodybuilding competition	What bodybuilding competition is named after Schwarzenegger?
For many years, he wrote a monthly column for the bodybuilding magazines Muscle & Fitness and Flex	How frequently did Schwarzenegger write a column for Muscle & Fitness and Flex?
Universe , 1 – IFBB ) wins, and seven Mr	How many times did Schwarzenegger win the Mr. Olympia title?
When asked about his personal training during the 2011 Arnold Classic he said that he was still working out a half an hour with weights every day	In 2011, how much time each day did Schwarzenegger say he lifted weights? 
In 1967, Schwarzenegger won the Munich stone-lifting contest, in which a stone weighing 508 German pounds (254 kg/560 lbs	In what competition did Schwarzenegger have to lift over 500 pounds while balancing on foot rests?
His first attempt was in 1969, when he lost to three-time champion Sergio Oliva	What year did Schwarzenegger first try to win the Mr. Olympia title?
In 1975, Schwarzenegger was once again in top form, and won the title for the sixth consecutive time, beating Franco Columbu	Who did Schwarzenegger beat to win his sixth Mr. Olympia in a row?
Olympia contest, filmmakers George Butler and Robert Fiore persuaded Schwarzenegger to compete, in order to film his training in the bodybuilding documentary called Pumping Iron	What was the name of the bodybuilding film Schwarzenegger starred in?
Schwarzenegger was training for his role in Conan, and he got into such good shape because of the running, horseback riding and sword training, that he decided he wanted to win the Mr	For what Hollywood role was Schwarzenegger training in 1980?
"Schwarzenegger has admitted to using performance-enhancing anabolic steroids while they were legal, writing in 1977 that ""steroids were helpful to me in maintaining muscle size while on a strict diet in preparation for a contest"	"In what year did Schwarzenegger write that he used anabolic steroid because they were ""helpful""?"
As the doctor had never examined him personally, Schwarzenegger collected a US$10,000 libel judgment against him in a German court	How much did the court award Schwarzenegger in the case against Heepe?
Schwarzenegger wanted to move from bodybuilding into acting, finally achieving it when he was chosen to play the role of Hercules in 1970's Hercules in New York	What was Schwarzenegger's first film role?
Schwarzenegger drew attention and boosted his profile in the bodybuilding film Pumping Iron , elements of which were dramatized; in 1991, he purchased the rights to the film, its outtakes, and associated still photography	When did Schwarzenegger purchase the rights to the film Pumping Iron?
This was followed by a sequel, Conan the Destroyer, in 1984, although it was not as successful as its predecessor	What was the title of the sequel to Conan the Barbarian?
During the 1980s, audiences had an appetite for action films, with both Schwarzenegger and Sylvester Stallone becoming international stars	What other action star was an international hit in the 1980s?
Twins , a comedy with Danny DeVito, also proved successful	What's the title of the comedy movie Schwarzenegger starred in with Danny DeVito in 1988?
Schwarzenegger's commercial peak was his return as the title character in 1991's Terminator 2: Judgment Day, which was the highest-grossing film of 1991	What Schwarzenegger film was 1991's highest-grossing movie?
That same year, the comedy Junior was released, the last of Schwarzenegger's three collaborations with Ivan Reitman and again co-starring Danny DeVito	What was Schwarzenegger's second film with co-star Danny DeVito?
In tribute to Schwarzenegger in 2002, Forum Stadtpark, a local cultural association, proposed plans to build a 25-meter tall Terminator statue in a park in central Graz	How many feet tall was the proposed statue of Schwarzenegger?
In 2005, he appeared as himself in the film The Kid & I	Which 2005 movie featured Schwarzenegger as himself?
The character was later revealed to be the Governator, star of the comic book and animated series of the same name	What's the name of the comic book character modeled on Schwarzenegger?
"On May 20, 2011, Schwarzenegger's entertainment counsel announced that all movie projects currently in development were being halted: ""Schwarzenegger is focusing on personal matters and is not willing to commit to any production schedules or timelines"""	On what date in 2011 was the hold on Schwarzenegger's movie projects announced?
"In 1985, Schwarzenegger appeared in ""Stop the Madness"", an anti-drug music video sponsored by the Reagan administration"	What was the title of the anti-drug music video Schwarzenegger appeared in under the Reagan administration's sponsorship?
"Bush, who dubbed him ""Conan the Republican"""	What nickname did George H.W. Bush give to Schwarzenegger?
In an interview with Talk magazine in late 1999, Schwarzenegger was asked if he thought of running for office	What year did Schwarzenegger's interview with Talk magazine take place?
Schwarzenegger announced his candidacy in the 2003 California recall election for Governor of California on the August 6, 2003 episode of The Tonight Show with Jay Leno	The episode of The Tonight Show with Jay Leno where Schwarzenegger announced his candidacy for Governor aired on what date?
Schwarzenegger defeated Democrat Cruz Bustamante, fellow Republican Tom McClintock, and others	Who was Schwarzenegger's closest rival in the gubernatorial race of 2003?
As soon as Schwarzenegger was elected governor, Willie Brown said he would start a drive to recall the governor	What politician threatened to start working to recall Schwarzenegger right after he was elected?
Key among his reckoning with political realities was a special election he called in November 2005, in which four ballot measures he sponsored were defeated	In what month of 2005 did Schwarzenegger hold a special election?
Schwarzenegger then went against the advice of fellow Republican strategists and appointed a Democrat, Susan Kennedy, as his Chief of Staff	Who did Schwarzenegger choose as Chief of Staff?
Schwarzenegger ran for re-election against Democrat Phil Angelides, the California State Treasurer, in the 2006 elections, held on November 7, 2006	In the 2006 gubernatorial election, who did Schwarzenegger run against?
It was rumored that Schwarzenegger might run for the United States Senate in 2010, as his governorship would be term-limited by that time	What political office did people speculate Schwarzenegger might try for in 2010?
Wendy Leigh, who wrote an unofficial biography on Schwarzenegger, claims he plotted his political rise from an early age using the movie business and bodybuilding as building blocks to escape a depressing home	What author claimed Schwarzenegger is power-obsessed?
citizenship since becoming naturalized in 1983	What year did Schwarzenegger become a naturalized citizen of the United States?
presidential election was highly sought; despite being good friends with candidates Rudy Giuliani and Senator John McCain, Schwarzenegger remained neutral throughout 2007 and early 2008	Who did Schwarzenegger finally endorse in the 2008 Republican primary?
"In its April 2010 report, Progressive ethics watchdog group Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington named Schwarzenegger one of 11 ""worst governors"" in the United States because of various ethics issues throughout Schwarzenegger's term as governor"	"What group awarded Schwarzenegger the title of one of the 11 ""worst governors"" in a 2010 report?"
Although he began his tenure as governor with record high approval ratings , he left office with a record low 23%, only one percent higher than that of Gray Davis's when he was recalled in October 2003	What was Schwarzenegger's highest approval rating during his stint as governor?
"During his initial campaign for governor, allegations of sexual and personal misconduct were raised against Schwarzenegger, dubbed ""Gropegate"""	What was the controversy around Schwarzenegger's first gubernatorial campaign nicknamed?
A fifth woman claimed Schwarzenegger tried to take off her bathing suit in a hotel elevator, and the last said he pulled her onto his lap and asked her about a sex act	One woman accused Schwarzenegger of trying to remove what item of clothing?
"In an interview with GQ magazine in October 2007, Schwarzenegger said, "" is not a drug"	"What magazine published an interview quoting Schwarzenegger calling marijuana a ""leaf""?"
British television personality Anna Richardson settled a libel lawsuit in August 2006 against Schwarzenegger, his top aide, Sean Walsh, and his publicist, Sheryl Main	Who sued Schwarzenegger and two of his employees for libel, settling in 2006?
In 2005, Peter Pilz, a member of the Austrian Parliament from the Austrian Green Party, demanded that Parliament revoke Schwarzenegger's Austrian citizenship due to his decision not to prevent the executions of Donald Beardslee and Stanley Williams, causing damage of reputation to Austria, where the death penalty has been abolished since 1968	What year did Austria outlaw the death penalty?
On September 27, 2006 Schwarzenegger signed a bill creating the nation's first cap on greenhouse gas emissions	What date marked the first law restricting greenhouse gas emissions?
Schwarzenegger signed another executive order on October 17, 2006 allowing California to work with the Northeast's Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative	What region of the U.S. has California partnered with on the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative?
In respect of his contribution to the direction of the US motor industry, Schwarzenegger was invited to open the 2009 SAE World Congress in Detroit, on April 20, 2009	In what city was the SAE World Congress held in 2009?
The former California governor would face a constitutional hurdle; Article II, Section I, Clause V nominally prevents individuals who are not natural-born citizens of the United States from assuming the office	What article, section, and clause of the Constitution requires U.S. presidents to be natural-born citizens?
"Following his move to the United States, Schwarzenegger became a ""prolific goal setter"" and would write his objectives at the start of the year on index cards, like starting a mail order business or buying a new car – and succeed in doing so"	Where would Schwarzenegger write down his goals?
In 1968, Schwarzenegger and fellow bodybuilder Franco Columbu started a bricklaying business	With which of his friends did Schwarzenegger start a bricklaying company?
Schwarzenegger rolled profits from the mail order business and his bodybuilding competition winnings into his first real estate investment venture: an apartment building he purchased for $10,000	How much did Schwarzenegger pay for the first apartment building he bought?
Schwarzenegger was a founding celebrity investor in the Planet Hollywood chain of international theme restaurants along with Bruce Willis, Sylvester Stallone and Demi Moore	What restaurant chain did Schwarzenegger invest in?
""" He has significant ownership in Dimensional Fund Advisors, an investment firm"	What investment firm does Schwarzenegger maintain partial ownership of?
In 1992, Schwarzenegger and his wife opened a restaurant in Santa Monica called Schatzi On Main	What's the name of the restaurant Schwarzenegger opened with his wife?
After separating from his wife, Maria Shriver, in 2011, it has been estimated that his net worth has been approximately $400 million, and even as high as $800 million, based on tax returns he filed in 2006	In what year did Schwarzenegger and Maria Shriver separate?
Baker published her memoir in 2006, entitled Arnold and Me: In the Shadow of the Austrian Oak	In what year did Schwarzenegger's former girlfriend Barbara Outland Baker publish her memoir?
Schwarzenegger met his next paramour, Sue Moray, a Beverly Hills hairdresser's assistant, on Venice Beach in July 1977	What was the name of the hairdresser's assistant Schwarzenegger fell for in July of 1977?
On April 26, 1986, Schwarzenegger married television journalist Maria Shriver, niece of President John F	What is Maria Shriver's relation to President John F. Kennedy
On May 9, 2011, Shriver and Schwarzenegger ended their relationship after 25 years of marriage, with Shriver moving out of the couple's Brentwood mansion	How long were Schwarzenegger and Shriver married?
Fifty-year-old Baena, of Guatemalan origin, was employed by the family for 20 years and retired in January 2011	Baena worked for the Schwarzenegger/Shriver family for how many years?
Schwarzenegger has consulted an attorney, Bob Kaufman	Which attorney did Schwarzenegger consult to handle his divorce?
"After the scandal, actress Brigitte Nielsen came forward and stated that she too had an affair with Schwarzenegger while he was in a relationship with Shriver, saying, ""Maybe I wouldn't have got into it if he said 'I'm going to marry Maria' and this is dead serious, but he didn't, and our affair carried on"	What actress claimed she also carried on an affair with Schwarzenegger while he was with Shriver?
Schwarzenegger was born with a bicuspid aortic valve, an aortic valve with only two leaflets 	What word describes an aortic valve with two rather than three leaflets?
On January 8, 2006, while Schwarzenegger was riding his Harley Davidson motorcycle in Los Angeles, with his son Patrick in the sidecar, another driver backed into the street he was riding on, causing him and his son to collide with the car at a low speed	Which of Schwarzenegger's sons was with him when he had a motorcycle accident in 2006?
Schwarzenegger tripped over his ski pole and broke his right femur while skiing in Sun Valley, Idaho, with his family on December 23, 2006	What bone did Schwarzenegger break while on a ski trip in 2006?
Schwarzenegger's private jet made an emergency landing at Van Nuys Airport on June 19, 2009, after the pilot reported smoke coming from the cockpit, according to a statement released by the governor's press secretary	At what airport was Schwarzenegger's jet forced to make an emergency landing in 2009?
"Schwarzenegger's official height of 6'2"" (1"	How tall does Schwarzenegger claim to be?
Schwarzenegger's autobiography, Total Recall, was released in October 2012	What's the title of Schwarzenegger's autobiography?
He was so enamored by the vehicle that he lobbied the Humvee's manufacturer, AM General, to produce a street-legal, civilian version, which they did in 1992; the first two Hummers they sold were also purchased by Schwarzenegger	In what year did AM General grant Schwarzenegger's wish for a street-legal Humvee?
He was spotted and filmed in 2015 Summer in his car, silver painted with bright aluminium forged wheels	What color is the exterior of Schwarzenegger's Bugatti Veyron Grand Sport Vitesse?
The Hummers that Schwarzenegger bought 1992 are so large – each weighs 6,300 lb and is 7 feet (2	How many pounds does one of Schwarzenegger's Hummers weigh?
In 1995, he founded the Inner City Games Foundation which provides cultural, educational and community enrichment programming to youth	What nonprofit did Schwarzenegger found in 1995?
In 2012, Schwarzenegger helped to found the Schwarzenegger Institute for State and Global Policy, which is a part of the USC Sol Price School of Public Policy at the University of Southern California	What school within the University of Southern California does the Schwarzenegger Institute for State and Global Policy belong to?
Plymouth is a city on the south coast of Devon, England, about 37 miles south-west of Exeter and 190 miles west-south-west of London, between the mouths of the rivers Plym to the east and Tamar to the west where they join Plymouth Sound to form the boundary with Cornwall	In kilometers, what is the distance from Plymouth to Exeter?
Plymouth's early history extends to the Bronze Age, when a first settlement emerged at Mount Batten	What was the location of the earliest settlement near Plymouth?
Throughout the Industrial Revolution, Plymouth grew as a commercial shipping port, handling imports and passengers from the Americas, and exporting local minerals while the neighbouring town of Devonport became a strategic Royal Naval shipbuilding and dockyard town	What nearby settlement built ships for the Royal Navy?
The city is home to 261,546 (mid-2014 est	As of 2014, what was the population of Plymouth?
An unidentified settlement named 'TAMARI OSTIA' is listed in Ptolemy's Geographia and is presumed to be located in the area of the modern city	What is the name of the location cited by Ptolemy that is believed to have been located near modern Plymouth?
The settlement of Plympton, further up the River Plym than the current Plymouth, was also an early trading port, but the river silted up in the early 11th century and forced the mariners and merchants to settle at the current day Barbican near the river mouth	In what century were sailors obligated to relocate from Plympton due to silting?
During the Hundred Years' War a French attack burned a manor house and took some prisoners, but failed to get into the town	In what year during the Hundred Years' War did the French assault Plymouth?
Plymouth was the home port for successful maritime traders, among them Sir John Hawkins, who led England's first foray into the Atlantic slave trade, as well as Sir Francis Drake, Mayor of Plymouth in 1581 and 1593	What notable slave trader was based out of Plymouth?
During the English Civil War Plymouth sided with the Parliamentarians and was besieged for almost four years by the Royalists	Which faction did Plymouth support during the English Civil War?
By the mid-17th century commodities manufactured elsewhere in England cost too much to transport to Plymouth and the city had no means of processing sugar or tobacco imports, although it did play a relatively small part in the Atlantic slave trade during the early 18th century	During what century was Plymouth involved with the Atlantic slave trade?
In the nearby parish of Stoke Damerel the first dockyard, HMNB Devonport, opened in 1690 on the eastern bank of the River Tamar	In what year was HMNB Davenport established?
Before the latter half of the 18th century, grain, timber and then coal were Plymouth's main imports	Along with coal and grain, what was the most important import in 18th century Plymouth?
Local chemist William Cookworthy established his somewhat short-lived Plymouth Porcelain venture in 1768 to exploit the recently discovered deposits of local China Clay - an industry which continues to make up a portion of the city income	Who founded Plymouth Porcelain?
The 1-mile-long Breakwater in Plymouth Sound was designed by John Rennie in order to protect the fleet moving in and out of Devonport; work started in 1812	In kilometers, how long was the Plymouth Sound Breakwater?
Some of the greatest imports to Plymouth from the Americas and Europe during the latter half of the 19th century included maize, wheat, barley, sugar cane, guano, sodium nitrate and phosphate Aside from the dockyard in the town of Devonport, industries in Plymouth such as the gasworks, the railways and tramways and a number of small chemical works had begun to develop in the 19th century, continuing into the 20th century	What animal byproduct was imported to Plymouth in the 19th century?
Although major units of the Royal Navy moved to the safety of Scapa Flow, Devonport was an important base for escort vessels and repairs	What was the primary base of the Royal navy during World War I?
In the First World War, Devonport was the headquarters of Western Approaches Command until 1941 and Sunderland flying boats were operated by the Royal Australian Air Force	What force used Sunderland flying boats out of Devonport?
The redevelopment of the city was planned by Sir Patrick Abercrombie in his 1943 Plan for Plymouth whilst simultaneously working on the reconstruction plan for London	Who was the author of the 1943 Plan for Plymouth?
Post-war, Devonport Dockyard was kept busy refitting aircraft carriers such as the Ark Royal and, later, nuclear submarines while new light industrial factories were constructed in the newly zoned industrial sector attracting rapid growth of the urban population	What aircraft carrier received maintenance at Devonport Dockyard?
The first record of the existence of a settlement at Plymouth was in the Domesday Book in 1086 as Sudtone, Saxon for south farm, located at the present day Barbican	In what text was the presence of a settlement in the Plymouth area first recorded?
In 1919 Nancy Astor was elected the first ever female member of parliament to take office in the British Houses of Parliament for the constituency of Plymouth Sutton	Who was the first woman MP to take her seat in the British Parliament?
In 1945, Plymouth-born Michael Foot was elected Labour MP for the war-torn constituency of Plymouth Devonport and after serving as Secretary of State for Education and responsible for the 1974 Health and Safety at Work Act, went on to become one of the most distinguished leaders of the Labour party	What constituency did MP Michael Foot represent?
The 1971 Local Government White Paper proposed abolishing county boroughs, which would have left Plymouth, a town of 250,000 people, being administered from a council based at the smaller Exeter, on the other side of the county	What was the population of Plymouth in 1971?
In the Parliament of the United Kingdom, Plymouth is represented by the three constituencies of Plymouth Moor View, Plymouth Sutton and Devonport and South West Devon and within the European Parliament as South West England	What European Parliamentary constitutency is Plymouth a part of?
The City of Plymouth is divided into 20 wards, 17 of which elect three councillors and the other three electing two councillors, making up a total council of 57	How many wards in Plymouth elect two councillors?
Plymouth was granted the dignity of Lord Mayor by King George V in 1935	What monarch bestowed the first Lord Mayor on Plymouth?
The Lord Mayor's official residence is 3 Elliot Terrace, located on the Hoe	At what street address is the Lord Mayor's residence located?
Plymouth lies between the River Plym to the east and the River Tamar to the west; both rivers flow into the natural harbour of Plymouth Sound	What river is to the west of Plymouth?
The River Plym, which flows off Dartmoor to the north-east, forms a smaller estuary to the east of the city called Cattewater	What estuary east of Plymouth is part of the River Plym?
Plymouth Sound, Shores and Cliffs is a Site of Special Scientific Interest, because of its geology	What special designation does Plymouth Sound, Shores and Cliffs possess?
A band of Middle Devonian limestone runs west to east from Cremyll to Plymstock including the Hoe	Middle Devonian limestone exists between Plymstock and what location?
On 27 April 1944 Sir Patrick Abercrombie's Plan for Plymouth to rebuild the bomb-damaged city was published; it called for demolition of the few remaining pre-War buildings in the city centre to make way for their replacement with wide, parallel, modern boulevards aligned east–west linked by a north–south avenue linking the railway station with the vista of Plymouth Hoe	On what date was the publication of the Plan for Plymouth?
Along with the rest of South West England, Plymouth has a temperate oceanic climate which is generally wetter and milder than the rest of England	What Köppen climate classification does Plymouth possess?
Rainfall tends to be associated with Atlantic depressions or with convection	Along with convection, what provokes rain in the Plymouth area?
Coastal areas have average annual sunshine totals over 1,600 hours	How many hours of sunshine does the South West England region get each year?
6 °C , the site record	In degrees Fahrenheit, what was the highest temperature achieved in Plymouth between 1971 and 2000?
The University of Plymouth enrolls 25,895 total students as of 2014/15 	How many students are studying at the University of Plymouth?
The University of St Mark & St John specialises in teacher training, and offers training across the country and abroad	What institution of higher education is colloquially known as Marjons?
Plymouth College of Art offers a selection of courses including media	Along with City College Plymouth, what college calls Plymouth home?
Plymouth also has 71 state primary phase schools, 13 state secondary schools, eight special schools and three selective state grammar schools, Devonport High School for Girls, Devonport High School for Boys and Plymouth High School for Girls	How many state primary schools are in Plymouth?
The city was also home to the Royal Naval Engineering College; opened in 1880 in Keyham, it trained engineering students for five years before they completed the remaining two years of the course at Greenwich	What maritime institution of higher education existed in Plymouth as of 1880?
Plymouth is home to the Marine Biological Association of the United Kingdom which conducts research in all areas of the marine sciences	What organization known as the MBA is based in Plymouth?
From the 2011 Census, the Office for National Statistics published that Plymouth's unitary authority area population was 256,384; 15,664 more people than that of the last census from 2001, which indicated that Plymouth had a population of 240,720	What was the population of Plymouth unitary authority circa 2011?
Plymouth's gross value added was 5,169 million GBP in 2013 making up 25% of Devon's GVA	What percentage of Devon's GVA does Plymouth comprise in 2013?
1 for women, was the lowest of any region in the South West of England	Where did Plymouth's life expectancy rank out of the regions of South West England?
Because of its coastal location, the economy of Plymouth has traditionally been maritime, in particular the defence sector with over 12,000 people employed and approximately 7,500 in the armed forces	How many Plymouth residents are employed in defense?
Devonport Dockyard is the UK's only naval base that refits nuclear submarines and the Navy estimates that the Dockyard generates about 10% of Plymouth's income	About what percentage of Plymouth's income comes from the Dockyard?
"At the west end of the zone inside a grade II listed building is the Pannier Market that was completed in 1959 – pannier meaning ""basket"" from French, so it translates as ""basket market"""	What notable shop is located in a grade II listed building?
"Plymouth Council is currently undertaking a project of urban redevelopment called the ""Vision for Plymouth"" launched by the architect David Mackay and backed by both Plymouth City Council and the Plymouth Chamber of Commerce "	What is the name of Plymouth Council's urban redevelopment project?
In 2004 the old Drake Circus shopping centre and Charles Cross car park were demolished and replaced by the latest Drake Circus Shopping Centre, which opened in October 2006	When was the Charles Cross car park removed?
There is a project involving the future relocation of Plymouth City Council's headquarters, the civic centre, to the current location of the Bretonside bus station; it would involve both the bus station and civic centre being demolished and a rebuilt together at the location with the land from the civic centre being sold off	What location is proposed for the future home of the Plymouth City Council headquarters?
Within the city it is designated as 'The Parkway' and represents the boundary between the urban parts of the city and the generally more recent suburban areas	What is the A38 called inside the city of Plymouth?
A regular international ferry service provided by Brittany Ferries operates from Millbay taking cars and foot passengers directly to France and Spain on the three ferries, MV Armorique, MV Bretagne and MV Pont-Aven	Who operates the ferry to Spain?
The city's airport was Plymouth City Airport about 4 miles north of the city centre	What local airport closed in 2011?
Plymouth railway station, which opened in 1877, is managed by Great Western Railway and also sees trains on the CrossCountry network	When did Plymouth's railroad station open for service?
On the night of 4 February 2014, amid high winds and extremely rough seas, part of the sea wall at Dawlish was breached washing away around 40 metres of the wall and the ballast under the railway immediately behind	On what date was the Dawlish sea wall damaged?
Plymouth has about 150 churches and its Roman Catholic cathedral is in Stonehouse	How many churches are present in Plymouth?
"Plymouth has the first known reference to Jews in the South West from Sir Francis Drake's voyages in 1577 to 1580, as his log mentioned ""Moses the Jew"" – a man from Plymouth"	What Plymouth Jew was mentioned by Sir Francis Drake?
7%	What was the percentage decline in Jewish residents of Plymouth between 2001 and 2011?
Built in 1815, Union Street was at the heart of Plymouth's historical culture	In what year was Union Street constructed?
Outdoor events and festivals are held including the annual British Firework Championships in August, which attracts tens of thousands of people across the waterfront	What notable event occurs each August?
The city's main theatres are the Theatre Royal , its Drum Theatre , and its production and creative learning centre, The TR2	How many people can fit in the Theatre Royal?
Plymouth is the regional television centre of BBC South West	What television station has its regional headquarters in Plymouth?
, who play in the fourth tier of English football league known as Football League Two	What level of the football league does Plymouth Argyle F.C. operate in?
and the Plymouth Raiders basketball club	What British Basketball League team calls Plymouth home?
The Port of Plymouth Regatta is one of the oldest regattas in the world, and has been held regularly since 1823	When was the first Port of Plymouth Regatta?
Since 1973 Plymouth has been supplied water by South West Water	When did Plymouth begin receiving water from South West Water?
Plymouth City Council is responsible for waste management throughout the city and South West Water is responsible for sewerage	What body handles waste management in Plymouth?
The Plymouth Borough Police, formed in 1836, eventually became part of Devon and Cornwall Constabulary	When did the Plymouth Borough Police begin operation?
Plymouth is served by Plymouth Hospitals NHS Trust and the city's NHS hospital is Derriford Hospital 4 miles north of the city centre	What is Plymouth's National Health Service hospital?
The mid-19th century burial ground at Ford Park Cemetery was reopened in 2007 by a successful trust and the City council operate two large early 20th century cemeteries at Weston Mill and Efford both with crematoria and chapels	When did Ford Park Cemetery reopen?
After the English Civil War the Royal Citadel was built in 1666 on the east end of Plymouth Hoe, to defend the port from naval attacks, suppress Plymothian Parliamentary leanings and to train the armed forces	In what year was the Royal Citadel constructed?
"The early port settlement of Plymouth, called ""Sutton"", approximates to the area now referred to as the Barbican and has 100 listed buildings and the largest concentration of cobbled streets in Britain"	What was the name of the port once situated on the land occupied by present day Plymouth?
"On the northern outskirts of the city, Crownhill Fort is a well restored example of a ""Palmerston's Folly"""	"What structure was referred to as a ""Palmerston's Folly""?"
To the west of the city is Devonport, one of Plymouth's historic quarters	In what cardinal direction outside Plymouth is Devonport located?
Plymouth is often used as a base by visitors to Dartmoor, the Tamar Valley and the beaches of south-east Cornwall	Visitors to what region's beaches often stop at Plymouth?
Designed by leading architect Henning Larsen, the building was opened in 2008 and houses the University's Arts faculty	Who designed the Roland Levinsky building?
People from Plymouth are known as Plymothians or less formally as Janners	What are Plymouth residents commonly called?
The Elizabethan navigator, Sir Francis Drake was born in the nearby town of Tavistock and was the mayor of Plymouth	What was the birthplace of Sir Francis Drake?
Artists include Beryl Cook whose paintings depict the culture of Plymouth and Robert Lenkiewicz, whose paintings investigated themes of vagrancy, sexual behaviour and suicide, lived in the city from the 1960s until his death in 2002	What artist died in Plymouth in 2002?
Notable athletes include swimmer Sharron Davies, diver Tom Daley, dancer Wayne Sleep, and footballer Trevor Francis	What is the occupation of Trevor Francis?
Heresy is any provocative belief or theory that is strongly at variance with established beliefs or customs	What is heresy mainly at odds with?
It is used in particular in reference to Christianity, Judaism, Islam and Marxism	What religions and idea of thought is heresy cited as being used frequently in?
In certain historical Christian, Islamic and Jewish cultures, among others, espousing ideas deemed heretical has been and in some cases still is subjected not merely to punishments such as excommunication, but even to the death penalty	What cultures are listed as examples of discipline for being a heretic?
"The term heresy is from Greek αἵρεσις originally meant ""choice"" or ""thing chosen"", but it came to mean the ""party or school of a man's choice"" and also referred to that process whereby a young person would examine various philosophies to determine how to live"	What language does the term heresy find its roots in?
According to Titus 3:10 a divisive person should be warned two times before separating from him	How many times is it suggested that you should warn people you are in disagreement with before parting ways?
The Church Fathers identified Jews and Judaism with heresy	What culture and religion did Fathers of the Church correlate with heresy?
"The use of the word ""heresy"" was given wide currency by Irenaeus in his 2nd century tract Contra Haereses to describe and discredit his opponents during the early centuries of the Christian community"	Who gave more exposure to the term heresy when attempting to descredit opponents during the early centuries of Christianity?
"Constantine the Great, who along with Licinius had decreed toleration of Christianity in the Roman Empire by what is commonly called the ""Edict of Milan"", and was the first Roman Emperor baptized, set precedents for later policy"	Who was the first Roman Emporor that was baptized?
The first known usage of the term in a legal context was in AD 380 by the Edict of Thessalonica of Theodosius I, which made Christianity the state church of the Roman Empire	In what year was the first usage of the term heresy in a legal context?
Within six years of the official criminalization of heresy by the Emperor, the first Christian heretic to be executed, Priscillian, was condemned in 386 by Roman secular officials for sorcery, and put to death with four or five followers	Who was the first Christian individual to be sentenced to death by the church for heresy in Rome?
In the Roman Catholic Church, obstinate and willful manifest heresy is considered to spiritually cut one off from the Church, even before excommunication is incurred	What is thought of to spiritually cut one off from the Church even before excommunication?
In France the Cathars grew to represent a popular mass movement and the belief was spreading to other areas	In what country did the Cathars grow to represent a popular movement?
Galileo Galilei was brought before the Inquisition for heresy, but abjured his views and was sentenced to house arrest, under which he spent the rest of his life	Who was brought before the Inquisition for heresy but renounced his beliefs and thus remained under house arrest for life?
"He described Jews as enemies of Christ: ""The more the Holy Spirit fills the world, the more perverse hatred dominates the souls of the Jews"	What were the Jews described as enemies of?
In Eastern Christianity heresy most commonly refers to those beliefs declared heretical by the first seven Ecumenical Councils	What area of Christianity commonly cited the first seven Ecumenical Councils in regards to heresy?
"In his work ""On the Jews and Their Lies"" , German Reformation leader Martin Luther claims that Jewish history was ""assailed by much heresy"", and that Christ the logos swept away the Jewish heresy and goes on to do so, ""as it still does daily before our eyes"	What is the work called that Martin Luther created regarding Jews and heresy?
In England, the 16th-century European Reformation resulted in a number of executions on charges of heresy	What event in England during the 16th century had an outcome of many deaths for heresy?
Another example of the persecution of heretics under Protestant rule was the execution of the Boston martyrs in 1659, 1660, and 1661	During which years did the execution of the Boston martyrs take place?
"The era of mass persecution and execution of heretics under the banner of Christianity came to an end in 1826 with the last execution of a ""heretic"", Cayetano Ripoll, by the Catholic Inquisition"	What year did the deaths of heretics under Christianity come to an end?
Although less common than in earlier periods, in modern times, formal charges of heresy within Christian churches still occur	Under which religion do charges of heresy still occur in modern times?
Perhaps due to the many modern negative connotations associated with the term heretic, such as the Spanish inquisition, the term is used less often today	What event is stated as a reason why the word heretic is used less often in modern times?
"Ottoman Sultan Selim the Grim, regarded the Shia Qizilbash as heretics, reportedly proclaimed that ""the killing of one Shiite had as much otherworldly reward as killing 70 Christians"	What group did Sultan Selim the Grim label as heretics?
In some modern day nations and regions in which Sharia law is ostensibly practiced, heresy remains an offense punishable by death	What type of law is still in practice in which heresy results in execution?
Orthodox Judaism considers views on the part of Jews who depart from traditional Jewish principles of faith heretical	What does Orthodox Judaism regard Jews who depart from traditional practices as?
"The act of using Church of Scientology techniques in a form different than originally described by Hubbard is referred to within Scientology as ""squirreling"" and is said by Scientologists to be high treason"	What term is used for the act of using Church of Scientology techniques in contrast to what Hubbard envisioned?
In other contexts the term does not necessarily have pejorative overtones and may even be complimentary when used, in areas where innovation is welcome, of ideas that are in fundamental disagreement with the status quo in any practice and branch of knowledge	What must be welcomed in areas for the term do be perceived as complimentary?
Bakker, who published his findings as The Dinosaur Heresies, treated the mainstream view of dinosaurs as dogma	What is the title of the book published by Robert T. Bakker regarding mainstream opinion of dinosaurs?
Immanuel Velikovsky is an example of a recent scientific exoheretic; he did not have appropriate scientific credentials or did not publish in scientific journals	What label is associated with Immanuel Velikovsky due to his works outside the accepted discipline?
The term heresy is also used as an ideological pigeonhole for contemporary writers because, by definition, heresy depends on contrasts with an established orthodoxy	By definition, what contrast does heresy depend on?
The Warsaw Pact was created in reaction to the integration of West Germany into NATO in 1955 per the Paris Pacts of 1954, but it is also considered to have been motivated by Soviet desires to maintain control over military forces in Central and Eastern Europe	In which year was the Warsaw Pact established?
While the Warsaw Pact was established as a balance of power or counterweight to NATO, there was no direct confrontation between them	Which organization was in direct competition with the Warsaw Pact?
On 25 February 1991, the Pact was declared at an end at a meeting of defense and foreign ministers from the remaining member states meeting in Hungary	In which country did the Warsaw Pact dissolution meeting take place?
Furthermore, the Supreme Commander of the Unified Armed Forces of the Warsaw Treaty Organization which commands and controls all the military forces of the member countries was also a First Deputy Minister of Defense of the USSR, and the Chief of Combined Staff of the Unified Armed Forces of the Warsaw Treaty Organization was also a First Deputy Chief of the General Staff of the Armed Forces of the USSR	Despite being headquartered in Poland, the top-ranking operatives of the Warsaw Pact were from which country?
Ideologically, the Soviet Union arrogated the right to define socialism and communism and act as the leader of the global socialist movement	Which ideologies did the Soviet Union aspire to lead around the globe?
These states protested strongly against re-militarization of West Germany	The formation of the Warsaw Pact was driven by fears of which country rearming itself?
Soviet foreign minister Molotov made proposals to have Germany reunified and elections for a pan-German government, under conditions of withdrawal of the four powers armies and German neutrality, but all were refused by the other foreign ministers, Dulles , Eden and Bidault 	Who was the Soviet minister who proposed German reunification?
"One month later, the proposed European Treaty was rejected not only by supporters of the EDC but also by western opponents of the European Defense Community who perceived it as ""unacceptable in its present form because it excludes the USA from participation in the collective security system in Europe"""	The omission of which nation from involvement in the proposed security system led to its NATO opposition?
"Emblematic was the position of British General Hastings Ismay, supporter of NATO expansion, who said that NATO ""must grow until the whole free world gets under one umbrella"	Who was the general who spoke out against the USSR joining NATO?
In April 1954 Adenauer made his first visit to the USA meeting Nixon, Eisenhower and Dulles	In what year did Konrad Adenauer first visit the United States?
Memories of the Nazi occupation were still strong, and the rearmament of Germany was feared by France too	Which NATO country feared a unified and rearmed Germany?
On 23 October 1954 – only nine years after Allies defeated Nazi Germany ending World War II in Europe – the admission of the Federal Republic of Germany to the North Atlantic Pact was finally decided	In which year was West Germany admitted to NATO?
"On 14 May 1955, the USSR and other seven European countries ""reaffirming their desire for the establishment of a system of European collective security based on the participation of all European states irrespective of their social and political systems"" established the Warsaw Pact in response to the integration of the Federal Republic of Germany into NATO, declaring that: ""a remilitarized Western Germany and the integration of the latter in the North-Atlantic bloc ["	In which month of 1955 was this pact declared?
One of the founding members, East Germany was allowed to re-arm by the Soviet Union and the National People's Army was established as the armed forces of the country to counter the rearmament of West Germany	Which nation was permitted rearmament by the foundation of the Warsaw Pact?
The eight member countries of the Warsaw Pact pledged the mutual defense of any member who would be attacked	How many countries formed the initial Warsaw Pact membership?
In July 1963 the Mongolian People's Republic asked to join the Warsaw Pact under Article 9 of the treaty	In which year did Mongolia seek entry in the Warsaw Pact?
For 36 years, NATO and the Warsaw Pact never directly waged war against each other in Europe; the United States and the Soviet Union and their respective allies implemented strategic policies aimed at the containment of each other in Europe, while working and fighting for influence within the wider Cold War on the international stage	What was the focus of both alliances' policies towards the other in lieu of direct fighting?
In 1956, following the declaration of the Imre Nagy government of withdrawal of Hungary from the Warsaw Pact, Soviet troops entered the country and removed the government	In which year did Hungary attempt to leave the Warsaw Pact?
The multi-national Communist armed forces' sole joint action was the Warsaw Pact invasion of Czechoslovakia in August 1968	In which year was the Warsaw Pact activated in a joint action?
On 25 February 1991, the Warsaw Pact was declared disbanded at a meeting of defense and foreign ministers from remaining Pact countries meeting in Hungary	In which country did Warsaw Pact officials meet to dissolve the alliance?
On 12 March 1999, the Czech Republic, Hungary, and Poland joined NATO; Bulgaria, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Romania, and Slovakia joined in March 2004; Albania joined on 1 April 2009	Which former Eastern Bloc country was the latest to join NATO?
In November 2005, the Polish government opened its Warsaw Treaty archives to the Institute of National Remembrance, who published some 1,300 declassified documents in January 2006	In which year did Poland declassify most of its Warsaw Pact-era archives?
"Consequently, Molotov, fearing that EDC would be directed in the future against the USSR therefore ""seeking to prevent the formation of groups of European States directed against other European States"", made a proposal for a General European Treaty on Collective Security in Europe ""open to all European States without regard as to their social systems"" which would have included the unified Germany "	Who made a proposal for a General European Treaty on Collective Identity in Europe?
Materialism is a form of philosophical monism which holds that matter is the fundamental substance in nature, and that all phenomena, including mental phenomena and consciousness, are identical with material interactions	What is materialism?
Philosophical physicalism has evolved from materialism with the discoveries of the physical sciences to incorporate more sophisticated notions of physicality than mere ordinary matter, such as: spacetime, physical energies and forces, dark matter, and so on	What are some examples of philosophical physicalism?
Materialism belongs to the class of monist ontology	What class does materialism belong to?
""" To idealists, spirit or mind or the objects of mind are primary, and matter secondary"	An idealist considers what as the most important?
The materialist view is perhaps best understood in its opposition to the doctrines of immaterial substance applied to the mind historically, famously by René Descartes	Was René Descartes an idealist or a materialist?
Later Marxists developed the notion of dialectical materialism which characterized later Marxist philosophy and method	What type of materialism defined the Marxist philosophy?
Materialism developed, possibly independently, in several geographically separated regions of Eurasia during what Karl Jaspers termed the Axial Age 	Who coined the Axial Age?
In Ancient Indian philosophy, materialism developed around 600 BC with the works of Ajita Kesakambali, Payasi, Kanada, and the proponents of the Cārvāka school of philosophy	Around what time did materialism become part of Ancient Indian philosophy?
Materialism is often associated with reductionism, according to which the objects or phenomena individuated at one level of description, if they are genuine, must be explicable in terms of the objects or phenomena at some other level of description — typically, at a more reduced level	Materialism is linked to what?
The Latin poem De Rerum Natura by Lucretius (ca	De Rerum Natura is a poem by who?
Later Indian materialist Jayaraashi Bhatta in his work Tattvopaplavasimha refuted the Nyaya Sutra epistemology	Name the title of the work by Jayaraashi Bhatta.
In early 12th-century al-Andalus, the Arabian philosopher, Ibn Tufail , wrote discussions on materialism in his philosophical novel, Hayy ibn Yaqdhan , while vaguely foreshadowing the idea of a historical materialism	What is the name of the novel written by Ibn Tufail?
The French cleric Pierre Gassendi represented the materialist tradition in opposition to the attempts of René Descartes to provide the natural sciences with dualist foundations	Pierre Gassendi lived from what year to what year?
"Arthur Schopenhauer wrote that """	Arthur Schopenhauer lived from what year to what year?
The German materialist and atheist anthropologist Ludwig Feuerbach would signal a new turn in materialism through his book, The Essence of Christianity , which provided a humanist account of religion as the outward projection of man's inward nature	"Who wrote ""The Essence of Christianity""?"
, Daniel Dennett, Willard Van Orman Quine, Donald Davidson, and Jerry Fodor—operate within a broadly physicalist or materialist framework, producing rival accounts of how best to accommodate mind, including functionalism, anomalous monism, identity theory, and so on	In regards to the mind, what are 3 theories that modern day philosophers try to harmonize?
The nature and definition of matter - like other key concepts in science and philosophy - have occasioned much debate	What is hyle?
Relativity shows that matter and energy are interchangeable	Relativity illustrates that what is interchangeable?
"According to the dominant cosmological model, the Lambda-CDM model, less than 5% of the universe's energy density is made up of the ""matter"" described by the Standard Model of Particle Physics, and the majority of the universe is composed of dark matter and dark energy - with little agreement amongst scientists about what these are made of"	Which model suggests that matter is 5% of the universe?
atoms are not things	Werner Heisenberg suggested that atoms are not what?
"In 1991, Gribbin and Davies released their book The Matter Myth, the first chapter of which, ""The Death of Materialism"", contained the following passage:"	What is the name of the 1991 book by Paul Davies and John Gribbins?
Davies' and Gribbin's objections are shared by proponents of digital physics who view information rather than matter to be fundamental	Digital physicists consider what to be more important than matter?
Materialism, in this view, therefore becomes incompatible with most world religions, including Christianity, Judaism, and Islam	Based on the above definition, materialism is not consistent with what?
Despite strong opposition from many Christians, this metaphysical depiction of God eventually became incorporated into the doctrine of the Christian church, displacing the original Judeo-Christian concept of a physical, corporeal God who created humans in His image and likeness	Which religious group strongly opposed the idea of Neoplatonism?
An argument for idealism, such as those of Hegel and Berkeley, is ipso facto an argument against materialism	If you believe in idealism, you are disbeliving in what?
Emergence, holism, and process philosophy seek to ameliorate the perceived shortcomings of traditional materialism without abandoning materialism entirely	What 3 types of philosophies attempt to correct the problem with matter and energy without removing every belief about materialism?
"Polkinghorne prefers ""dual-aspect monism"" to faith in materialism"	Instead of faith, John Polkinghorne relies on what when it comes to the theory of materialism?
"However philosophers such as Mary Midgley suggest that the concept of ""matter"" is elusive and poorly defined"	Why does Mary Midgley suggest matter is well defined? 
Its materiality can, in some ways, be linked to the concept of Determinism, as espoused by Enlightenment thinkers	Why does materialism agree with dualism? 
"Scientific ""Materialism"" is often synonymous with, and has so far been described, as being a reductive materialism"	Reductive materialism is not synonymous with what?
"Some scientific materialists have been criticized, for example by Noam Chomsky, for failing to provide clear definitions for what constitutes matter, leaving the term ""materialism"" without any definite meaning"	Who is praised for providing a clear definition of materalism?
The concept of matter has changed in response to new scientific discoveries	The concept of matter has not changed for what reason?
Kant argued against all three forms of materialism, subjective idealism and dualism	Who agreed with all three forms of materialism? 
A Christian ) is a person who adheres to Christianity, an Abrahamic, monotheistic religion based on the life and teachings of Jesus Christ	What is a person who follows Christianity called?
There are diverse interpretations of Christianity which sometimes conflict	While many, the perceptions of Christianity can sometimes what?
2 billion Christians around the world in 2010, up from about 600 million in 1910	How many Christians were in the world in 1910?
About half of all Christians worldwide are Catholic, while more than a third are Protestant 	Of all the Christians in the world, how many are Catholic?
"The Greek word Χριστιανός , meaning ""follower of Christ"", comes from Χριστός , meaning ""anointed one"", with an adjectival ending borrowed from Latin to denote adhering to, or even belonging to, as in slave ownership"	"What Greek word defines as ""follower of Christ?"""
"The first recorded use of the term is in the New Testament, in Acts 11:26, after Barnabas brought Saul to Antioch where they taught the disciples for about a year, the text says: ""["	Where is the first reference to the word Christian in the Bible?
Kenneth Samuel Wuest holds that all three original New Testament verses' usages reflect a derisive element in the term Christian to refer to followers of Christ who did not acknowledge the emperor of Rome	Kenneth Samuel Wuest believes that the Biblical Christian term referenced people who did not acknowledge who?
"The earliest occurrences of the term in non-Christian literature include Josephus, referring to ""the tribe of Christians, so named from him;"" Pliny the Younger in correspondence with Trajan; and Tacitus, writing near the end of the 1st century"	What is one of the first mentions of the term Christian in a non-religious work, referring to a tribe of Christians?
"Another term for Christians which appears in the New Testament is ""Nazarenes"" which is used by the Jewish lawyer Tertullus in Acts 24"	In Acts 24, what is another word that Christians are called?
A wide range of beliefs and practices is found across the world among those who call themselves Christian	While Christianity is ultimately one belief, a wide range of what is found among the different denominations and sects?
"Linda Woodhead attempts to provide a common belief thread for Christians by noting that ""Whatever else they might disagree about, Christians are at least united in believing that Jesus has a unique significance"	Who states that Christian believers agree that Jesus has a unique significance? 
The identification of Jesus as the Messiah is not accepted by Judaism	Judaism does not believe that Jesus is the what?
In Arabic-speaking cultures, two words are commonly used for Christians: Naṣrānī , plural Naṣārā is generally understood to be derived from Nazareth through the Syriac ; Masīḥī means followers of the Messiah	What does Masīḥī mean?
Where there is a distinction, Nasrani refers to people from a Christian culture and Masihi means those with a religious faith in Jesus	Which term is in reference to people from a Christian culture?
Another Arabic word sometimes used for Christians, particularly in a political context, is Ṣalībī from ṣalīb which refers to Crusaders and has negative connotations	What is the Arabic term when referring to Christians in a political sense?
The most common Persian word is Masīhī , from Arabic	What is the most common Persian word for Christian?
The Syriac term Nasrani has also been attached to the Saint Thomas Christians of Kerala, India	Which word has been connected to Saint Thomas Christians of Kerala, India?
In the past, the Malays used to call the Portuguese Serani from the Arabic Nasrani, but the term now refers to the modern Kristang creoles of Malaysia	What term did the Malays use for the Portuguese Serani?
"The Chinese word is 基督徒 , literally ""Christ follower"	What is the Chinese word for Christian?
In Japan, the term kirishitan , from Portuguese cristão, referred to Roman Catholics in the 16th and 17th centuries before the religion was banned by the Tokugawa shogunate	What Japanese term was used in reference to Roman Catholics?
"Korean still uses 기독교도, Kidok-kyo-do for ""Christian"", though the Greek form Kurisudo 그리스도 has now replaced the old Sino-Korean Kidok, which refers to Christ himself"	What is the Korean word for Christian?
] Scythia - Christians already lived there	What was the region of Eastern Europe called in 1 AD?
Christians have composed about 33 percent of the world's population for around 100 years	How long have Christians made up nearly 1/3rd of the population?
Christianity remains the dominant religion in the Western World, where 70% are Christians	More people belong to what religion than any other in the Western world?
According to 2012 Pew Research Center survey if current trends continue, Christianity will remains the world's largest religion by year 2050	Which religion will have the most followers by the year 2050 if trends continue?
According to Scientific Elite: Nobel Laureates in the United State by Harriet Zuckerman, a review of American Nobel prizes awarded between 1901 and 1972, 72% of American Nobel Prize laureates identified a Protestant background	What denomination of Christianity had the highest percentage of Nobel Prize winners between 1901 and 1972 in America?
Christians have made a myriad contributions in a broad and diverse range of fields, including the sciences, arts, politics, literatures and business	Christians have made contributions to science and art but not which subjects?
Christians have made a myriad contributions in a broad and diverse range of fields, including the sciences, arts, politics, literatures and business	What have Christians failed to do regarding a range of fields?
In 1929, the enterprise was first founded as American Record Corporation and, in 1938, was renamed Columbia Recording Corporation, following ARC's acquisition by CBS	What was the first name of Sony Music Entertainment, Inc?
In 2004, SME and Bertelsmann Music Group merged as Sony BMG Music Entertainment	In what year did SME merge with another company?
In 1929, ARC was founded through a merger of several smaller record companies, which, ultimately, transformed into one enterprise known as SME	In what year did ARC form?
ARC was acquired in 1938 by the Columbia Broadcasting System 	Who bought out ARC?
Columbia founded Epic Records in 1953	In what year was Epic Records created?
Philips' acquisition of Mercury Records in the US in 1961 paved the way for this	In what year was Mercury Records bought out?
By 1962, their Columbia Record Productions unit was operating four plants around the United States located in Los Angeles; Terre Haute, Indiana; Bridgeport, Connecticut; and Pitman, New Jersey, which manufactured records for not only Columbia's own labels, but also for independent record labels	What 4 areas of the country did Columbia Records have manufacturers in?
In 1964, CBS established its own UK distribution with the acquisition of Oriole Records	ABC established it own UK distribution in what year?
With the record company a global operation in 1965, the Columbia Broadcasting System upper management started pondering changing the name of their record company subsidiary from Columbia Records to CBS Records	CBS began thinking of a name change to their record label in what year?
Also in late 1965, the Date subsidiary label was revived	"Date Records gave rise to the group ""Peaches and Herb"" in what year?"
"In 1966, CBS reorganized its corporate structure with Leiberson promoted to head the new ""CBS-Columbia Group"" which made the now renamed CBS Records company a separate unit of this new group run by Clive Davis"	Who ran CBS-Columbia Group starting in 1966?
In March 1968, CBS and Sony formed CBS/Sony Records, a Japanese business joint venture	In what year did CBS and Sony come together?
The CBS Records Group was led very successfully by Clive Davis until his dismissal in 1972, after it was discovered that Davis has used CBS funds to finance his personal life, including an expensive bar mitzvah party for his son	In what year was Clive Davis let go at CBS Records Group?
In February 2016, over a hundred thousand people signed a petition in just twenty-four hours, calling for a boycott of Sony Music and all other Sony-affiliated businesses after rape allegations against music producer Dr	How many people signed a petition to boycott Sony Music in 2016?
org directly to Google to have content removed	What search engine company giant has Sony sent requests to regarding content on a website?
In July 2013, Sony Music withdrew from the Greek market due to an economic crisis	In what year did Sony pull out of the Greek market?
In March 2012, Sony Music reportedly closed its Philippines office due to piracy, causing to move distribution of SME in the Philippines to Ivory Music	In what year did Sony shut down their offices in the Philippines?
Doug Morris, who was head of Warner Music Group, then Universal Music, became chairman and CEO of the company on July 1, 2011	Who joined the CEO of Epic Records in becoming the CEO of Sony Music?
Tony Martell, veteran CBS and Epic Records A&R Vice President was head of this label and signed artists including Ozzy Osbourne, the Fabulous Thunderbirds, Electric Light Orchestra, Joan Jett, and Henry Lee Summer	Name 3 artists that CBS Associated Records signed on in the 80s and 90s?
In 1986, CBS sold its music publishing arm, CBS Songs, to Stephen Swid, Martin Bandier, and Charles Koppelman for $125 million making it the foundation of their SBK Entertainment	In what year did CBS sell CBS Songs?
"By 1987, CBS was the only ""big three"" American TV network to have a co-owned record company"	In what year was CBS the only network to also have a record company?
On November 17, 1987, SCA acquired CBS Records, which hosted such acts as Michael Jackson, for US$2 billion	In what year did SCA buy CBS Records?
In 1989, CBS Records re-entered the music publishing business by acquiring Nashville music publisher Tree International Publishing for more than $30 million	In what year did CBS Records buy out Tree International Publishing?
RCA/Jive Label Group CEO Barry Weiss left the company in March 2011 to become the new CEO of Island Def Jam and Universal Republic, which were both part of Universal Music Group	In what year did CEO of RCA/Jive Barry Weiss leave?
On October 11, 2011, Doug Morris announced that Mel Lewinter had been named Executive Vice President of Label Strategy	Who was promoted to Executive VP of Label Strategy in 2011?
In August 2004, Sony entered joint venture with equal partner Bertelsmann, by merging Sony Music and Bertelsmann Music Group, Germany, to establish Sony BMG Music Entertainment	In what year did Sony and BMG Germany merge?
On August 5, 2008, SCA and Bertelsmann announced that Sony had agreed to acquire Bertelsmann's 50% stake in Sony BMG	In what year did Sony take BMG's half stake in the company?
On July 1, 2009, SME and IODA announced their global strategic partnership to leverage combined worldwide online retail distribution networks and complementary technologies to support independent labels and music rightsholders	What labels strove to support indie labels and music rightsholders?
In March 2010, Sony Corp has partnered with The Michael Jackson Company with a contract of more than $250 million, the largest deal in recorded music history	Who did Sony partner with to create the biggest deal ever?
It also started the process of bringing BMG's Arista Records back under common ownership with its former parent Columbia Pictures, a Sony division since 1989, and also brought Arista founder Clive Davis back into the fold	Columbia Pictures has been owned by Sony since what year?
In 1995, Sony and Michael Jackson formed a joint venture which merged Sony's music publishing operations with Jackson's ATV Music to form Sony/ATV Music Publishing	In what year did the merger take place?
Sony renamed the record company Sony Music Entertainment on January 1, 1991, fulfilling the terms set under the 1988 buyout, which granted only a transitional license to the CBS trademark	In what year did the name Sony Music Entertainment become the new name of Sony's record label?
In 1970, CBS Records revived the Embassy Records imprint in UK and Europe, which had been defunct since CBS had taken control of Embassy's parent company, Oriole, in 1964	In 1980, CBS Records revived what?
expressed support for SOPA and PIPA	Sony Music expressed support for SOUP and whom?
In May 2012, Sony Music filed charges against the website IsoHunt	In May 2012, ABC Music filed charged against whom?
Oklahoma City is the capital and largest city of the state of Oklahoma	What is the capital of Oklahoma?
Oklahoma City, lying in the Great Plains region, features one of the largest livestock markets in the world	Which region is Oklahoma City a part of?
Oklahoma City is on the I-35 Corridor and is one of the primary travel corridors into neighboring Texas and Mexico	What corridor is Oklahoma City situated in?
"Oklahoma City was settled on April 22, 1889, when the area known as the ""Unassigned Lands"" was opened for settlement in an event known as ""The Land Run"""	What was the name of the land before being called Oklahoma City?
By the time Oklahoma was admitted to the Union in 1907, Oklahoma City had surpassed Guthrie, the territorial capital, as the population center and commercial hub of the new state	What year was Oklahoma city entered into the Union?
With the 1928 discovery of oil within the city limits , Oklahoma City became a major center of oil production	When was oil discovered in the city limits?
Patience Latting was elected Mayor of Oklahoma City in 1971, becoming the city's first female mayor	Who was the Oklahoma Cities first female mayor?
In 1993, the city passed a massive redevelopment package known as the Metropolitan Area Projects , intended to rebuild the city's core with civic projects to establish more activities and life to downtown	What was the name of the redevelopment passage that was passed in 1993?
Notable among these was the restoration of the Skirvin Hotel in 2007	When was the Skirvin Hotel Renovated?
The site has been commemorated as the Oklahoma City National Memorial and Museum	What is the name of the newly renovated site where the bombing occured?
"The ""Core-to-Shore"" project was created to relocate I-40 one mile (1"	What was the name of the project to change the location of I-40 and make a new entrance to the city?
Oklahoma City lies in the Sandstone Hills region of Oklahoma, known for hills of 250 to 400 feet and two species of oak: blackjack oak and post oak (Q	Which region is Oklahoma city located in?
The city is roughly bisected by the North Canadian River 	What river flows through Oklahoma city?
Its urbanized zone covers roughly 244 sq mi resulting in a density of 2,500 per square mile , compared with larger rural watershed areas incorporated by the city, which cover the remaining 377 sq mi of the city limits	What covers the remaining 377 square miles?
The city is bisected geographically and culturally by the North Canadian River, which basically divides North Oklahoma City and South Oklahoma City	Which side is known for primarily being industrial?
The centerpiece of downtown is the newly renovated Crystal Bridge and Myriad Botanical Gardens, one of the few elements of the Pei Plan to be completed	What are two newly renovated locations in downtown Oklahoma city?
Oklahoma City has a humid subtropical climate , with frequent variations in weather daily and seasonally, except during the consistently hot and humid summer months	What type of climate does Oklahoma city?
Oklahoma City has a very active severe weather season from March through June, especially during April and May	When is Oklahoma city sever weather season begin?
48 inches of rainfall, May 2015 was by far Oklahoma City's record-wettest month since record keeping began in 1890	When was the most rainfall for Oklahoma city?
As of the 2010 census, there were 579,999 people, 230,233 households, and 144,120 families residing in the city	How many people were counted in the 2010 census?
There were 230,233 households, 29	How many households were in Oklahoma city?
The median age was 34 years	What was Oklahoma cities median age in 2000?
Oklahoma City has experienced significant population increases since the late 1990s	When did the population increases begin in Oklahoma city?
Oklahoma City is the principal city of the eight-county Oklahoma City Metropolitan Statistical Area in Central Oklahoma and is the state's largest urbanized area	What is Oklahoma's largest urbanized area?
With regards to Mexican drug cartels, Oklahoma City has traditionally been the territory of the notorious Juárez Cartel, but the Sinaloa Cartel has been reported as trying to establish a foothold in Oklahoma City	What cartel has been known to be in Oklahoma city?
The worst of which occurred in 1978, when six employees of a Sirloin Stockade restaurant on the city's south side were murdered execution-style in the restaurant's freezer	When were six employees found dead in a restaurants freezer?
The Department has a central police station and five substations covering 2,500 police reporting districts that average 1/4 square mile in size	How many substations does Oklahoma city have?
Murrah Federal Building was destroyed by a fertilizer bomb manufactured and detonated by Timothy McVeigh	Who detonated the bomb in 1995?
While not in Oklahoma City proper, other large employers within the MSA region include: Tinker Air Force Base ; University of Oklahoma ; University of Central Oklahoma ; and Norman Regional Hospital 	How many universities are within the MSA region?
"In 2008, Forbes magazine named Oklahoma City the most ""recession proof city in America"""	"What year did forbes list Oklahoma city as ""recession proof""."
The university also opened the Wanda L Bass School of Music and auditorium in April 2006	When was the Wanda L Bass School of Music and auditorium opened?
The Science Museum Oklahoma houses exhibits on science, aviation, and an IMAX theater	What was the original name of the Science Museum of Oklahoma?
The Museum of Osteology houses more than 300 real animal skeletons	How many animal skeletons are in the museum of Osteology?
In contrast, the city will also be home to The American Indian Cultural Center and Museum that began construction in 2009 , on the south side of Interstate 40, southeast from Bricktown	When did The American Indian Cultural Center and Museum begin construction?
"The Oklahoma City National Memorial in the northern part of Oklahoma City's downtown was created as the inscription on its eastern gate of the Memorial reads, ""to honor the victims, survivors, rescuers, and all who were changed forever on April 19, 1995""; the memorial was built on the land formerly occupied by the Alfred P"	What is the name of Oklahoma Cities memorial?
The American Banjo Museum located in the Bricktown Entertainment district is dedicated to preserving and promoting the music and heritage of America's native musical instrument – the banjo	What musical instrument has it's own museum in Oklahoma City?
Located across the street from the governor's mansion at 800 Nazih Zuhdi Drive in northeast Oklahoma City, the museum opened in 2005 and is operated by the Oklahoma Historical Society	When was the Oklahoma History Center created?
Oklahoma City is home to several professional sports teams, including the Oklahoma City Thunder of the National Basketball Association	What NBA team hails from Oklahoma City?
Other professional sports clubs in Oklahoma City include the Oklahoma City Dodgers, the Triple-A affiliate of the Los Angeles Dodgers, the Oklahoma City Energy FC of the United Soccer League, and the Crusaders of Oklahoma Rugby Football Club USA Rugby	What team is the affiliate to the Los Angeles Dodgers?
Chesapeake Energy Arena in downtown is the principal multipurpose arena in the city which hosts concerts, NHL exhibition games, and many of the city's pro sports teams	What is the name of the downtown arena?
Oklahoma City is the annual host of the Big 12 Baseball Tournament, the World Cup of Softball, and the annual NCAA Women's College World Series	What is one annual event Oklahoma City hosts?
Other major sporting events include Thoroughbred and Quarter horse racing circuits at Remington Park and numerous horse shows and equine events that take place at the state fairgrounds each year	What park hosts Quarter horse racing?
The Oklahoma Secondary School Activities Association organizes high school football into eight distinct classes based on the size of school enrollment	What organization organizes High School football?
The Oklahoma City Thunder of the National Basketball Association has called Oklahoma City home since the 2008–09 season, when owner Clayton Bennett relocated the franchise from Seattle, Washington	Who moved the Oklahoma City Thunder to Oklahoma City?
After a lackluster arrival to Oklahoma City for the 2008–09 season, the Oklahoma City Thunder secured a berth in the 2010 NBA Playoffs the next year after boasting its first 50-win season, winning two games in the first round against the Los Angeles Lakers	What place were the Thunder in 2010 NBA playoffs?
Oklahoma City has earned Northwest Division titles every year since 2009 and has consistently improved its win record to 59-wins in 2014	When did the Thunder start winning Northwest Division Titles?
In the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina, the NBA's New Orleans Hornets temporarily relocated to the Ford Center, playing the majority of its home games there during the 2005–06 and 2006–07 seasons	Where did the Hornets play after Hurricane Katrina?
The park has an amphitheater, known as the Water Stage	What is the name of the amphitheater located inside the Botanical Gardens?
Oklahoma City also has a combination racetrack and casino open year-round, Remington Park, which hosts both Quarter horse and Thoroughbred seasons	Which place hosts racetracks and is a casino?
Lake Stanley Draper is the city's largest and most remote lake	Which lake is the cities largest lake?
Oklahoma City is home to the American Banjo Museum, which houses a large collection of highly decorated banjos from the early 20th century and exhibits on the history of the banjo and its place in American history	What place hosts concerts and lectures?
In April 2005, the Oklahoma City Skate Park at Wiley Post Park was renamed the Mat Hoffman Action Sports Park to recognize Mat Hoffman, an Oklahoma City area resident and businessman that was instrumental in the design of the skate park and is a 10-time BMX World Vert champion	Which BMX Champion had a park named after them in Oklahoma City?
Mick Cornett serves as Mayor, having first been elected in 2004, and re-elected in 2006, 2010, and 2014	Who is the mayor of Oklahoma City?
Oklahoma City University, formerly known as Epworth University, was founded by the United Methodist Church on September 1, 1904 and is renowned for its performing arts, science, mass communications, business, law, and athletic programs	What was the original name of Oklahoma City University?
The University of Oklahoma has several institutions of higher learning in the city and metropolitan area, with OU Medicine and the University of Oklahoma Health Sciences Center campuses located east of downtown in the Oklahoma Health Center district, and the main campus located to the south in the suburb of Norman	Which district is OU Medicine campus located in?
The third-largest university in the state, the University of Central Oklahoma, is located just north of the city in the suburb of Edmond	Which university is the third-largest in the state?
Oklahoma City Community College in south Oklahoma City is the second-largest community college in the state	Which community college is the second largest in the state?
Although technically not a university, the FAA's Mike Monroney Aeronautical Center has many aspects of an institution of higher learning	What institution is accredited by the North Central Association of Colleges and Schools?
Oklahoma City is home to the state's largest school district, Oklahoma City Public Schools	What is Oklahoma's largest school district?
The Oklahoma School of Science and Mathematics, a school for some of the state's most gifted math and science pupils, is also located in Oklahoma City	Where is The Oklahoma School of Science and Mathematics located?
Oklahoma City has several public career and technology education schools associated with the Oklahoma Department of Career and Technology Education, the largest of which are Metro Technology Center and Francis Tuttle Technology Center	What are the two largest technology education schools in Oklahoma City?
The Dale Rogers Training Center in Oklahoma City is a nonprofit vocational training center for individuals with disabilities	What center is a nonprofit training center for disabled people?
The Oklahoman is Oklahoma City's major daily newspaper and is the most widely circulated in the state	Which newspaper is the most produced through the state of Oklahoma?
There are numerous community and international newspapers locally that cater to the city's ethnic mosaic; such as The Black Chronicle, headquartered in the Eastside, the OK VIETIMES and Oklahoma Chinese Times, located in Asia District, and various Hispanic community publications	Which side is the Black Chronicles Headquarters?
An upscale lifestyle publication called Slice Magazine is circulated throughout the metropolitan area	What is the name of the lifestyle magazine?
Oklahoma City's WKY Radio was the first radio station transmitting west of the Mississippi River and the third radio station in the United States	What was the third Radio Station in the US?
broadcast television networks have affiliates in the Oklahoma City market ; including NBC affiliate KFOR-TV , ABC affiliate KOCO-TV , CBS affiliate KWTV-DT , PBS station KETA-TV , Fox affiliate KOKH-TV , CW affiliate KOCB , independent station KAUT-TV , MyNetworkTV affiliate KSBI-TV , and Ion Television owned-and-operated station KOPX-TV 	What rank is Oklahoma Cities television networks for Nielsen?
Oklahoma City is protected by the Oklahoma City Fire Department , which employs 1015 paid, professional firefighters	How many people are paid to be employed by the Oklahoma City Fire department?
Oklahoma City is an integral point on the United States Interstate Network, with three major interstate highways – Interstate 35, Interstate 40, and Interstate 44 – bisecting the city	How many major highways cross through Oklahoma City?
Major state expressways through the city include Lake Hefner Parkway , the Kilpatrick Turnpike, Airport Road , and Broadway Extension which continues from I-235 connecting Central Oklahoma City to Edmond	What is one Major expressway that travels through Oklahoma City?
Shields Boulevard continues from E	What boulevard turns into E.K Gaylord Boulevard?
Oklahoma City is served by two primary airports, Will Rogers World Airport and the much smaller Wiley Post Airport Will Rogers World Airport is the state's busiest commercial airport, with over 3	Which airport is the busiest?
METRO Transit is the city's public transit company	What is Oklahoma Cities transit company?
On December 2009, Oklahoma City voters passed MAPS 3, the $777 million initiative, which will include funding for an estimated 5-to-6-mile (8	When was MAPS 3 passed?
OU Medicine operates Oklahoma's only level-one trauma center at the OU Medical Center and the state's only level-one trauma center for children at Children's Hospital at OU Medicine, both of which are located in the Oklahoma Health Center district	Where is the Children's hospital located?
INTEGRIS Health owns several hospitals, including INTEGRIS Baptist Medical Center, the INTEGRIS Cancer Institute of Oklahoma, and the INTEGRIS Southwest Medical Center	Name a hospital owned by INTEGRIS Health?
The Midwest Regional Medical Center located in the suburb of Midwest City; other major hospitals in the city include the Oklahoma Heart Hospital and the Mercy Health Center	Where is the Midwest Regional Medical Center?
In the American College of Sports Medicine's annual ranking of the United States' 50 most populous metropolitan areas on the basis of community health, Oklahoma City took last place in 2010, falling five places from its 2009 rank of 45	What ranking was Oklahoma City in for the American College of Sports Medicine in 2010?
A hunter-gatherer is a human living in a society in which most or all food is obtained by foraging , in contrast to agricultural societies, which rely mainly on domesticated species	What kind of human lives by collecting wild flora and fauna?
Hunting and gathering was humanity's first and most successful adaptation, occupying at least 90 percent of human history	What has been humans' best adaptation in food production?
Only a few contemporary societies are classified as hunter-gatherers, and many supplement their foraging activity with horticulture and/or keeping animals	How many groups of modern hunter-gatherers are there?
In the 1950s, Lewis Binford suggested that early humans were obtaining meat via scavenging, not hunting	How did early humans locate meat without hunting ?
According to the endurance running hypothesis, long-distance running as in persistence hunting, a method still practiced by some hunter-gatherer groups in modern times, was likely the driving evolutionary force leading to the evolution of certain human characteristics	What is long-distance running as a food hunting-gathering technique?
8 million years ago, by Homo erectus, and from its appearance some 0	What phase of human used subsistence strategies to find food?
Starting at the transition between the Middle to Upper Paleolithic period, some 80,000 to 70,000 years ago, some hunter-gatherers bands began to specialize, concentrating on hunting a smaller selection of game and gathering a smaller selection of food	During what period did hunter-gatherers begin to focus food collection on a more limited range?
Forest gardens originated in prehistoric times along jungle-clad river banks and in the wet foothills of monsoon regions	In what kind of area did forest gardening start?
Many of them reside in the developing world, either in arid regions or tropical forests	Where do many modern day hunter-gatherers live?
As the number and size of agricultural societies increased, they expanded into lands traditionally used by hunter-gatherers	Who expanded into the territory of hunter-gathers?
As a result of the now near-universal human reliance upon agriculture, the few contemporary hunter-gatherer cultures usually live in areas unsuitable for agricultural use	What type of areas do modern hunter-gathers live in?
Most hunter-gatherers are nomadic or semi-nomadic and live in temporary settlements	What is the lifestyle of hunter-gatherers?
Some hunter-gatherer cultures, such as the indigenous peoples of the Pacific Northwest Coast, lived in particularly rich environments that allowed them to be sedentary or semi-sedentary	What kind of area allowed a more permanent settlement?
Hunter-gatherers tend to have an egalitarian social ethos, although settled hunter-gatherers are an exception to this rule	What is the social style of hunter-gather societies?
The egalitarianism typical of human hunters and gatherers is never total, but is striking when viewed in an evolutionary context	How is it interesting to view hunter-gatherers' egalitarianism?
Anthropologists maintain that hunter/gatherers don't have permanent leaders; instead, the person taking the initiative at any one time depends on the task being performed	What permanent group representative do hunter-gatherers not have?
It is easy for Western-educated scholars to fall into the trap of viewing hunter-gatherer social and sexual arrangements in the light of Western values	What value system do Western scholars tend to use in analyzing societies?
To this day, most hunter-gatherers have a symbolically structured sexual division of labour	How is labor often divided in these groups?
"At the 1966 ""Man the Hunter"" conference, anthropologists Richard Borshay Lee and Irven DeVore suggested that egalitarianism was one of several central characteristics of nomadic hunting and gathering societies because mobility requires minimization of material possessions throughout a population"	At what conference did Richard Borshay speak?
"At the same conference, Marshall Sahlins presented a paper entitled, ""Notes on the Original Affluent Society"", in which he challenged the popular view of hunter-gatherers lives as ""solitary, poor, nasty, brutish and short,"" as Thomas Hobbes had put it in 1651"	Who called hunter-gathers the original affluent society?
Mutual exchange and sharing of resources (i	What other characteristic of group behavior is needed in a hunter-gatherer society?
 found temperature to be the only statistically significant factor to impact hunter-gatherer tool kits	What is the only important factor in hunter-gatherer tool choices?
"James Woodburn uses the categories ""immediate return"" hunter-gatherers for egalitarian and ""delayed return"" for nonegalitarian"	What does the immediate return system mean?
"Hunting-gathering was the common human mode of subsistence throughout the Paleolithic, but the observation of current-day hunters and gatherers does not necessarily reflect Paleolithic societies; the hunter-gatherer cultures examined today have had much contact with modern civilization and do not represent ""pristine"" conditions found in uncontacted peoples"	How do modern hunters and gathers differ from early ones?
It has been argued that hunting and gathering represents an adaptive strategy, which may still be exploited, if necessary, when environmental change causes extreme food stress for agriculturalists	What is hunting and gathering argued to be?
In the early 1980s, a small but vocal segment of anthropologists and archaeologists attempted to demonstrate that contemporary groups usually identified as hunter-gatherers do not, in most cases, have a continuous history of hunting and gathering, and that in many cases their ancestors were agriculturalists and/or pastoralists who were pushed into marginal areas as a result of migrations, economic exploitation, and/or violent conflict 	If they're not purely hunter-gatherers, then what do they have a history of being?
"Some of the theorists who advocate this ""revisionist"" critique imply that, because the ""pure hunter-gatherer"" disappeared not long after colonial contact began, nothing meaningful can be learned about prehistoric hunter-gatherers from studies of modern ones "	What can be learned from the study of modern hunter-gatherers?
Lee and Guenther have rejected most of the arguments put forward by Wilmsen	Who has rejected Wilmsen's arguments?
Many hunter-gatherers consciously manipulate the landscape through cutting or burning undesirable plants while encouraging desirable ones, some even going to the extent of slash-and-burn to create habitat for game animals	What do hunter-gathers intentionally manipulate?
Some agriculturalists also regularly hunt and gather (e	What do some agriculturalists often do?
One such group is the Pila Nguru of Western Australia, whose habitat in the Great Victoria Desert has proved unsuitable for European agriculture 	What is the name of the Spinifex people?
Around 18,500-15,500 years ago, these hunter-gatherers are believed to have followed herds of now-extinct Pleistocene megafauna along ice-free corridors that stretched between the Laurentide and Cordilleran ice sheets	These ancient hunter-gathers followed what path in pursuit of game?
Hunter-gatherers would eventually flourish all over the Americas, primarily based in the Great Plains of the United States and Canada, with offshoots as far east as the Gaspé Peninsula on the Atlantic coast, and as far south as Chile, Monte Verde	Where did the North American hunter-gathers mostly live?
The Archaic period in the Americas saw a changing environment featuring a warmer more arid climate and the disappearance of the last megafauna	What kind of climate occurred in the Americas?
The United Nations Population Fund , formerly the United Nations Fund for Population Activities, is a UN organization	What is the current name of the United Nations Fund for Population Activities?
The UNFPA supports programs in more than 150 countries, territories and areas spread across four geographic regions: Arab States and Europe, Asia and the Pacific, Latin America and the Caribbean, and sub-Saharan Africa	In how many geographic regions does UNFPA operate?
UNFPA began operations in 1969 as the United Nations Fund for Population Activities under the administration of the United Nations Development Fund	When did UNFPA begin its work?
In September 2015, the 193 member states of the United Nations unanimously adopted the Sustainable Development Goals, a set of 17 goals aiming to transform the world over the next 15 years	When did the U.N. vote to adopt the Sustainable Development Goals?
The Sustainable Development Goals are ambitious, and they will require enormous efforts across countries, continents, industries and disciplines - but they are achievable	Are the Sustainable Development Goals considered ambitious or modest in scope?
Executive Directors and Under-Secretaries General of the UN 2011–present Dr Babatunde Osotimehin 2000–2010 Ms Thoraya Ahmed Obaid 1987–2000 Dr Nafis Sadik 1969–87 Mr Rafael M	Dr Babatunde Osotimehin hailed from what country?
UNFPA is the world's largest multilateral source of funding for population and reproductive health programs	UNFPA is the largest worldwide funder of what type of programs?
"According to UNFPA these elements promote the right of ""reproductive health"", that is physical, mental, and social health in matters related to reproduction and the reproductive system"	UNFPA lists elements that promote what human right?
The Fund raises awareness of and supports efforts to meet these needs in developing countries, advocates close attention to population concerns, and helps developing nations formulate policies and strategies in support of sustainable development	Where does The Fund work to raise awareness and provide support?
UNFPA works in partnership with governments, along with other United Nations agencies, communities, NGOs, foundations and the private sector, to raise awareness and mobilize the support and resources needed to achieve its mission to promote the rights and health of women and young people	UNFPA's mission is to promote the rights and health of whom?
UNFPA has been falsely accused by anti-family planning groups of providing support for government programs which have promoted forced-abortions and coercive sterilizations	UNFPA has been accused of supporting what type of abortion?
Contributions from governments and the private sector to UNFPA in 2014 exceeded $1 billion	Who contributes to UNFPA?
UNFPA provided aid to Peru's reproductive health program in the mid-to-late '90s	During what period did UNFPA aid Peru's reproductive health program?
From 2002 through 2008, the Bush Administration denied funding to UNFPA that had already been allocated by the US Congress, partly on the refuted claims that the UNFPA supported Chinese government programs which include forced abortions and coercive sterilizations	Which 21st century administration denied funding to UNFPA?
UNFPA's connection to China's administration of forced abortions was refuted by investigations carried out by various US, UK, and UN teams sent to examine UNFPA activities in China	Which country was administering forced abortions?
However, according to then-Secretary of State Colin Powell, the UNFPA contributed vehicles and computers to the Chinese to carry out their population control policies	What policies did a State Department official accuse UNFPA of helping China carry out?
"Smith , criticized the State Department investigation, saying the investigators were shown ""Potemkin Villages"" where residents had been intimidated into lying about the family-planning program"	The representative said that inspectors had been show what sort of villages?
But Amnesty International found no evidence that UNFPA had supported the coercion	What organization found no evidence that UNFPA had supported Chinese coercion?
President Bush denied funding to the UNFPA	Which government official blocked funding to the UNFPA?
3 M, $118 was donated by the Netherlands, $67 M by Sweden, $62 M by Norway, $54 M by Denmark, $53 M by the UK, $52 M by Spain, $19 M by Luxembourg	Which European government contributed the most to the UNFPA in 2008?
In America, nonprofit organizations like Friends of UNFPA worked to compensate for the loss of United States federal funding by raising private donations	What is one country in which nonprofit organizations try to make up for the loss of United States funding for the UNFPA?
"In January 2009 President Barack Obama restored US funding to UNFPA, saying in a public statement that he would ""look forward to working with Congress to restore US financial support for the UN Population Fund"	Which president began funding UNFPA again?
To the west it bordered Finland, Norway and Poland; and to the south, China, Mongolia and North Korea whilst bordering the Arctic Ocean to the north, the Pacific Ocean to the east and the Black sea and Caspian Sea to the south	Which ocean is along eastern Russia?
Under the leadership of Vladimir Lenin, the Bolsheviks established the Soviet state on 7 November [O	Which group originally created the Soviet state?
On December 30, 1922, with the creation of the Soviet Union, Russia became one of six republics within the federation of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics	When was the Soviet Union created?
On December 25, 1991, following the collapse of the Soviet Union, the republic was renamed the Russian Federation, which it remains to this day	When did the Soviet Union break up?
The international borders of the RSFSR touched Poland on the west; Norway and Finland on the northwest; and to its southeast were the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Mongolian People's Republic, and the People's Republic of China	Which country did the RSFSR border on the west?
The Soviet regime first came to power on November 7, 1917, immediately after the Russian Provisional Government, which governed the Russian Republic, was overthrown in the October Revolution	When did the Soviet regime first become powerful?
On January 25, 1918, at the third meeting of the All-Russian Congress of Soviets, the unrecognized state was renamed the Soviet Russian Republic	Which official name was Russia given at the start of 1918?
In 1943, Karachay Autonomous Oblast was dissolved by Joseph Stalin, when the Karachays were exiled to Central Asia for their alleged collaboration with the Germans and territory was incorporated into the Georgian SSR	Which oblast was broken up in 1943?
The RSFSR was established on November 7, 1917 as a sovereign state	On what date was the RSFSR established?
The economy of Russia became heavily industrialized, accounting for about two-thirds of the electricity produced in the USSR	How much of the USSR's electricity was produced in the RSFSR?
On June 12, 1990, the Congress of People's Deputies adopted the Declaration of State Sovereignty	On what date was the Declaration of State Sovereignty adopted?
On December 25, 1991, the Russian SFSR was renamed the Russian Federation	What was the new name given to the RSFSR on December 25, 1991?
On January 25, 1918 the third meeting of the All-Russian Congress of Soviets renamed the unrecognized state the Soviet Russian Republic	On what date was the state named the Soviet Russian Republic?
Internationally, in 1920, the RSFSR was recognized as an independent state only by Estonia, Finland, Latvia and Lithuania in the Treaty of Tartu and by the short-lived Irish Republic	What treaty resulted in the recognition of the RSFSR by Latvia and other states?
"For most of the Soviet Union's existence, it was commonly referred to as ""Russia,"" even though technically ""Russia"" was only one republic within the larger union—albeit by far the largest, most powerful and most highly developed"	What was the common name of the Soviet Union?
Roughly 70% of the area in the RSFSR consisted of broad plains, with mountainous tundra regions mainly concentrated in the east	What percentage of the RSFSR was made up of plains?
On December 30, 1922, the First Congress of the Soviets of the USSR approved the Treaty on the Creation of the USSR, by which Russia was united with the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, and Transcaucasian Soviet Federal Socialist Republic into a single federal state, the Soviet Union	On what date was the Treaty on the Creation of the USSR passed?
Many regions in Russia were affected by the Soviet famine of 1932–1933: Volga; Central Black Soil Region; North Caucasus; the Urals; the Crimea; part of Western Siberia; and the Kazak ASSR	During what span was there a famine in the Soviet Union?
The final name for the republic during the Soviet era was adopted by the Russian Constitution of 1937, which renamed it the Russian Soviet Federative Socialist Republic	What was Soviet Russia called as of 1937?
On March 3, 1944, on the orders of Stalin, the Chechen-Ingush ASSR was disbanded and its population forcibly deported upon the accusations of collaboration with the invaders and separatism	What state was dissolved on March 3, 1944?
On October 11, 1944, the Tuvan People's Republic joined the Russian SFSR as the Tuvan Autonomous Oblast, in 1961 becoming an Autonomous Soviet Socialist Republic	What was the Tuvan People's Republic renamed when it joined the RSFSR?
After reconquering Estonia and Latvia in 1944, the Russian SFSR annexed their easternmost territories around Ivangorod and within the modern Pechorsky and Pytalovsky Districts in 1944-1945	Along with Estonia, what country was taken over by the Russian SFSR in 1944?
At the end of World War II Soviet troops occupied southern Sakhalin Island and the Kuril Islands, making them part of the RSFSR	Along with Sakhalin Island, what islands were occupied by the Soviets after the Second World War?
On April 17, 1946, the Kaliningrad Oblast — the northern portion of the former German province of East Prussia—was annexed by the Soviet Union and made part of the Russian SFSR	On what date was Kaliningrad Oblast annexed?
On February 8, 1955, Malenkov was officially demoted to deputy Prime Minister	Who was demoted on February 8, 1955?
On January 9, 1957, Karachay Autonomous Oblast and Chechen-Ingush Autonomous Soviet Socialist Republic were restored by Khrushchev and they were transferred from the Georgian SSR back to the Russian SFSR	When was the Chechen-Ingush Autonomous Soviet Socialist Republic transferred from the Georgian SSR?
In 1964, Nikita Khrushchev was removed from his position of power and replaced with Leonid Brezhnev	Who lost power in 1964?
"On June 12, 1990, the Congress of People's Deputies of the Republic adopted the Declaration of State Sovereignty of the Russian SFSR, which was the beginning of the ""War of Laws"", pitting the Soviet Union against the Russian Federation and other constituent republics"	On what date was the Declaration of State Sovereignty of the Russian SFSR adopted?
On March 17, 1991, an all-Russian referendum created the post of President of the RSFSR	On what date was the office of President of the RSFSR created?
On August 23, after the failure of GKChP, in the presence of Gorbachev, Yeltsin signed a decree suspending all activity by the Communist Party of the Russian SFSR in the territory of Russia	On what date was the Communist Party of the Russian SFSR suspended?
"On December 8, 1991, at Viskuli near Brest , the President of the Russian SFSR and the heads of Byelorussian SSR and Ukrainian SSR signed the ""Agreement on the Establishment of the Commonwealth of Independent States"" "	In what country is Viskuli located?
On December 24, Yeltsin informed the Secretary-General of the United Nations that by agreement of the member states of the CIS Russian Federation would assume the membership of the Soviet Union in all UN organs 	When did the Russian Federation assume the Soviet Union's membership in the UN?
The Government was known officially as the Council of People's Commissars , Council of Ministers and Council of Ministers–Government 	What was the government of the RSFSR called up to 1946?
The Russian SFSR was controlled by the Communist Party of the Soviet Union, until the abortive 1991 August coup, which prompted President Yeltsin to suspend the recently created Communist Party of the Russian Soviet Federative Socialist Republic	What political organization controlled the RSFSR up to 1991?
Alexander Graham Bell was a Scottish-born scientist, inventor, engineer and innovator who is credited with patenting the first practical telephone	What is Bell most famous for inventing?
Bell's father, grandfather, and brother had all been associated with work on elocution and speech, and both his mother and wife were deaf, profoundly influencing Bell's life's work	What were his relatives known for working on?
Although Bell was not one of the 33 founders of the National Geographic Society, he had a strong influence on the magazine while serving as the second president from January 7, 1898 until 1903	How many people started the National Geographic Society?
Alexander Bell was born in Edinburgh, Scotland, on March 3, 1847	What city was Bell born in?
As a child, young Bell displayed a natural curiosity about his world, resulting in gathering botanical specimens as well as experimenting even at an early age	What sort of things did Bell collect as a child?
From his early years, Bell showed a sensitive nature and a talent for art, poetry, and music that was encouraged by his mother	Bell was gifted at art, poetry, and what?
His family was long associated with the teaching of elocution: his grandfather, Alexander Bell, in London, his uncle in Dublin, and his father, in Edinburgh, were all elocutionists	Where did Bell's uncle live?
As a young child, Bell, like his brothers, received his early schooling at home from his father	Who taught Bell when he was very young?
His father encouraged Bell's interest in speech and, in 1863, took his sons to see a unique automaton, developed by Sir Charles Wheatstone based on the earlier work of Baron Wolfgang von Kempelen	In what year did Bell's father take him to see an automaton?
"Intrigued by the results of the automaton, Bell continued to experiment with a live subject, the family's Skye Terrier, ""Trouve"""	What living thing did Bell use in his research?
At the age of 19, he wrote a report on his work and sent it to philologist Alexander Ellis, a colleague of his father 	Who did Bell get to read his work?
"Working from his own erroneous mistranslation of a French edition, Bell fortuitously then made a deduction that would be the underpinning of all his future work on transmitting sound, reporting: ""Without knowing much about the subject, it seemed to me that if vowel sounds could be produced by electrical means, so could consonants, so could articulate speech"	By what means did Bell conclude vowel sounds could be made?
In 1865, when the Bell family moved to London, Bell returned to Weston House as an assistant master and, in his spare hours, continued experiments on sound using a minimum of laboratory equipment	In what year did the Bell's move to London?
Hull's private school for the deaf in South Kensington, London	What city is Susanna E. Hull located in?
In 1870, at age 23, Bell, his brother's widow, Caroline , and his parents travelled on the SS Nestorian to Canada	How old was Bell when he went to Canada?
"At the homestead, Bell set up his own workshop in the converted carriage house near to what he called his ""dreaming place"", a large hollow nestled in trees at the back of the property above the river"	What building did Bell use as a workshop?
He also modified a melodeon so that it could transmit its music electrically over a distance	What did Bell rework to send music?
Bell's father was invited by Sarah Fuller, principal of the Boston School for Deaf Mutes , in Boston, Massachusetts, to introduce the Visible Speech System by providing training for Fuller's instructors, but he declined the post in favor of his son	Who ran the Boston School for Deaf Mutes?
 The basic concept behind his device was that messages could be sent through a single wire if each message was transmitted at a different pitch, but work on both the transmitter and receiver was needed	How many wires did Bell send a signal through?
Unsure of his future, he first contemplated returning to London to complete his studies, but decided to return to Boston as a teacher	What city did Bell decide to return to?
Several influential people of the time, including Bell, viewed deafness as something that should be eradicated, and also believed that with resources and effort they could teach the deaf to speak and avoid the use of sign language, thus enabling their integration within the wider society from which many were often being excluded	Bell's goal was to instruct the deaf to speak and not use what?
In the following year, Bell became professor of Vocal Physiology and Elocution at the Boston University School of Oratory	What was Bell's discipline?
"Deciding to give up his lucrative private Boston practice, Bell retained only two students, six-year-old ""Georgie"" Sanders, deaf from birth, and 15-year-old Mabel Hubbard"	"Bell's two remaining students were ""Georgie"" Sanders and who?"
" While working that summer in Brantford, Bell experimented with a ""phonautograph"", a pen-like machine that could draw shapes of sound waves on smoked glass by tracing their vibrations"	On what material did the phonautograph operate?
"In 1874, telegraph message traffic was rapidly expanding and in the words of Western Union President William Orton, had become ""the nervous system of commerce"""	What business was William Orton in charge of?
In March 1875, Bell and Pollok visited the famous scientist Joseph Henry, who was then director of the Smithsonian Institution, and asked Henry's advice on the electrical multi-reed apparatus that Bell hoped would transmit the human voice by telegraph	Who did Bell go to see in 1875?
With financial support from Sanders and Hubbard, Bell hired Thomas Watson as his assistant, and the two of them experimented with acoustic telegraphy	Who did Bell take on to work with him?
profits with his investors Gardiner Hubbard and Thomas Sanders, Bell requested that an associate in Ontario, George Brown, attempt to patent it in Britain, instructing his lawyers to apply for a patent in the U	In what country other than the U.S. did Bell try to patent his telegraph?
Meanwhile, Elisha Gray was also experimenting with acoustic telegraphy and thought of a way to transmit speech using a water transmitter	What material did Elisha Gray use to convey sound?
Bell's patent 174,465, was issued to Bell on March 7, 1876, by the U	What number is Bell's patent?
On March 10, 1876, three days after his patent was issued, Bell succeeded in getting his telephone to work, using a liquid transmitter similar to Gray's design	What kind of transmitter did Bell put in his telephone?
"Although Bell was, and still is, accused of stealing the telephone from Gray, Bell used Gray's water transmitter design only after Bell's patent had been granted, and only as a proof of concept scientific experiment, to prove to his own satisfaction that intelligible ""articulate speech"" could be electrically transmitted"	Bell implemented Gray's design as a what?
The question of priority for the variable resistance feature of the telephone was raised by the examiner before he approved Bell's patent application	What part of the telephone was investigated by the patent officer?
The patent examiner, Zenas Fisk Wilber, later stated in an affidavit that he was an alcoholic who was much in debt to Bell's lawyer, Marcellus Bailey, with whom he had served in the Civil War	Who declared himself an alcoholic?
On August 3, 1876, from the telegraph office in Mount Pleasant five miles away from Brantford, Bell sent a tentative telegram indicating that he was ready	From what city did Bell send his first message?
Bell and his partners, Hubbard and Sanders, offered to sell the patent outright to Western Union for $100,000	How much did Bell et al. try to sell his patent for?
A short time later, his demonstration of an early telephone prototype at the 1876 Centennial Exposition in Philadelphia brought the telephone to international attention	In what city was the 1876 Centennial Exposition?
The Bell Telephone Company was created in 1877, and by 1886, more than 150,000 people in the U	In what year was the Bell Telephone Company founded?
In January 1915, Bell made the first ceremonial transcontinental telephone call	In what month and year did Bell telephone across the country?
Over a period of 18 years, the Bell Telephone Company faced 587 court challenges to its patents, including five that went to the U	During how many years did the Bell Company battle lawsuits?
5	How many of the court cases wound up at the Supreme Court?
Government moved to annul the patent issued to Bell on the grounds of fraud and misrepresentation	In 1887 the US Government wanted to undo Bell's patent due to fraud and what?
During a deposition filed for the 1887 trial, Italian inventor Antonio Meucci also claimed to have created the first working model of a telephone in Italy in 1834	Who claimed to have invented the in 1834?
3	How many court trials did Meucci participate in?
The Siemens company produced near-identical copies of the Bell telephone without having to pay royalties	Because of their patent, what didn't Siemens & Halske have to give Bell?
On July 11, 1877, a few days after the Bell Telephone Company was established, Bell married Mabel Hubbard at the Hubbard estate in Cambridge, Massachusetts	Who did Bell marry in 1877?
The Bell family home was in Cambridge, Massachusetts, until 1880 when Bell's father-in-law bought a house in Washington, D	In what year did Mabel's father move to Washington D.C.?
Bell was a British subject throughout his early life in Scotland and later in Canada until 1882, when he became a naturalized citizen of the United States	In what year did Bell officially become an American?
That summer, the Bells had a vacation on Cape Breton Island in Nova Scotia, spending time at the small village of Baddeck	What Island in Nova Scotia did the Bells go to in 1885?
Until the end of his life, Bell and his family would alternate between the two homes, but Beinn Bhreagh would, over the next 30 years, become more than a summer home as Bell became so absorbed in his experiments that his annual stays lengthened	Where did the Bells live when the Halifax Explosion happened?
"According to one of his biographers, Charlotte Gray, Bell's work ranged ""unfettered across the scientific landscape"" and he often went to bed voraciously reading the Encyclopædia Britannica, scouring it for new areas of interest"	What series of books does Gray say Bell would go to sleep reading?
During his Volta Laboratory period, Bell and his associates considered impressing a magnetic field on a record as a means of reproducing sound	What famous lab did Bell spend time working for?
Bell's own home used a primitive form of air conditioning, in which fans blew currents of air across great blocks of ice	What form of water played a part in Bell's home cooling system?
Bell and his assistant Charles Sumner Tainter jointly invented a wireless telephone, named a photophone, which allowed for the transmission of both sounds and normal human conversations on a beam of light	What did Bell call his cord-free phone?
On June 21, 1880, Bell's assistant transmitted a wireless voice telephone message a considerable distance, from the roof of the Franklin School in Washington, D	Bell and his assistant first used their photophone on what date?
The photophone was a precursor to the fiber-optic communication systems which achieved popular worldwide usage in the 1980s	What did Bell call the best thing he ever made?
Bell is also credited with developing one of the early versions of a metal detector in 1881	What did Bell create in 1881?
Bell's own detailed account, presented to the American Association for the Advancement of Science in 1882, differs in several particulars from most of the many and varied versions now in circulation, most notably by concluding that extraneous metal was not to blame for failure to locate the bullet	Bell gave his story about trying to find the bullet to the American Association for the Advancement of what?
The March 1906 Scientific American article by American pioneer William E	What nationality was Meacham?
During his world tour of 1910–11, Bell and Baldwin met with Forlanini in France	In what country did Baldwin and Forlanini get together?
In 1898, Bell experimented with tetrahedral box kites and wings constructed of multiple compound tetrahedral kites covered in maroon silk	What color silk covered Bell's kites?
Bell was a supporter of aerospace engineering research through the Aerial Experiment Association , officially formed at Baddeck, Nova Scotia, in October 1907 at the suggestion of his wife Mabel and with her financial support after the sale of some of her real estate	What organization did Bell set up due to his interest in aerospace?
The AEA's work progressed to heavier-than-air machines, applying their knowledge of kites to gliders	What did the AEA work on after kites?
Their final aircraft design, the Silver Dart, embodied all of the advancements found in the earlier machines	What did the AEA name their last plane?
In his lecture Memoir upon the formation of a deaf variety of the human race presented to the National Academy of Sciences on November 13, 1883 he noted that congenitally deaf parents were more likely to produce deaf children and tentatively suggested that couples where both parties were deaf should not marry	What kind of parents did Bell state were more prone to having deaf children?
A large number of Bell's writings, personal correspondence, notebooks, papers and other documents reside at both the United States Library of Congress Manuscript Division , and at the Alexander Graham Bell Institute, Cape Breton University, Nova Scotia; major portions of which are available for online viewing	What are Bell's personal papers known as?
In 1880, Bell received the Volta Prize with a purse of 50,000 francs for the invention of the telephone from the Académie française, representing the French government	Adjusted for inflation, how many dollars were awarded to Bell alongside the Volta Prize?
In partnership with Gardiner Greene Hubbard, Bell helped establish the publication Science during the early 1880s	What magazine did Bell found alongside Hubbard?
Bell received numerous honorary degrees from colleges and universities, to the point that the requests almost became burdensome	What did Bell receive from many centers of post-secondary education?
The First Day of Issue ceremony was held on October 28 in Boston, Massachusetts, the city where Bell spent considerable time on research and working with the deaf	In 1936, what place did Bell receive on a list of best inventors?
The illustrations on the reverse of the note include Bell's face in profile, his signature, and objects from Bell's life and career: users of the telephone over the ages; an audio wave signal; a diagram of a telephone receiver; geometric shapes from engineering structures; representations of sign language and the phonetic alphabet; the geese which helped him to understand flight; and the sheep which he studied to understand genetics	What bird is depicted on the Scottish banknote?
Alexander Graham Bell was ranked 57th among the 100 Greatest Britons in an official BBC nationwide poll, and among the Top Ten Greatest Canadians , and the 100 Greatest Americans 	In 2002, where did Bell place in a list of the Greatest Britons?
Bell died of complications arising from diabetes on August 2, 1922, at his private estate, Beinn Bhreagh, Nova Scotia, at age 75	What disease contributed greatly to Bell's death?
Bell's coffin was constructed of Beinn Bhreagh pine by his laboratory staff, lined with the same red silk fabric used in his tetrahedral kite experiments	What kind of wood was Bell's coffin made from?
Alexander Graham Bell was buried atop Beinn Bhreagh mountain, on his estate where he had resided increasingly for the last 35 years of his life, overlooking Bras d'Or Lake	Where was Bell buried?
The bel and the smaller decibel are units of measurement of sound intensity invented by Bell Labs and named after him	What unit is named after Bell?
A pub /pʌb/, or public house is, despite its name, a private house, but is called a public house because it is licensed to sell alcohol to the general public	What is the term 'pub' short for?
The history of pubs can be traced back to Roman taverns, through the Anglo-Saxon alehouse to the development of the modern tied house system in the 19th century	What Roman businesses were analogous to modern day pubs?
Traditionally the windows of town pubs were of smoked or frosted glass to obscure the clientele from the street but from the 1990s onwards, there has been a move towards clear glass, in keeping with brighter interiors	What are traditional pub windows made out of?
"The owner, tenant or manager of a pub is properly known as the ""pub landlord"""	What is a proper term for the licensee of the pub?
Until the 1970s most of the larger pubs also featured an off-sales counter or attached shop for the sales of beers, wines and spirits for home consumption	In what decade did pubs tend to cease selling alcohol for off-premises drinking?
The inhabitants of the British Isles have been drinking ale since the Bronze Age, but it was with the arrival of the Roman Empire in its shores in the 1st Century, and the construction of the Roman road networks that the first inns, called tabernae, in which travellers could obtain refreshment began to appear	During what historical epoch did Britons begin drinking ale?
The Hostellers of London were granted guild status in 1446 and in 1514 the guild became the Worshipful Company of Innholders	When did the Hostellers of London become a guild?
Inns are buildings where travellers can seek lodging and, usually, food and drink	Aside from lodging, what amenities are often offered at inns?
In Europe, it is the provision of accommodation, if anything, that now distinguishes inns from taverns, alehouses and pubs	What amenity does an inn offer that pubs, alehouses and taverns usually do not?
The original services of an inn are now also available at other establishments, such as hotels, lodges, and motels, which focus more on lodging customers than on other services, although they usually provide meals; pubs, which are primarily alcohol-serving establishments; and restaurants and taverns, which serve food and drink	What is the main service of an inn, now also attainable in motels, hotels and lodges?
The Inns of Court and Inns of Chancery in London started as ordinary inns where barristers met to do business, but became institutions of the legal profession in England and Wales	Along with the Inns of Chancery, in what inns did British lawyers historically conduct business?
Traditional English ale was made solely from fermented malt	What was the one ingredient of traditional English ale?
"Gin was brought to England by the Dutch after the Glorious Revolution of 1688 and became very popular after the government created a market for ""cuckoo grain"" or ""cuckoo malt"" that was unfit to be used in brewing and distilling by allowing unlicensed gin and beer production, while imposing a heavy duty on all imported spirits"	After what political upheaval was gin introduced to England?
The distinction was illustrated by William Hogarth in his engravings Beer Street and Gin Lane	What artist created the engraving Beer Street and Gin Lane?
"By the early 19th century, encouraged by lower duties on gin, the gin houses or ""Gin Palaces"" had spread from London to most cities and towns in Britain, with most of the new establishments illegal and unlicensed"	In what century did gin houses proliferate throughout Britain?
"Under a banner of ""reducing public drunkenness"" the Beer Act of 1830 introduced a new lower tier of premises permitted to sell alcohol, the Beer Houses"	What law allowed the existence of beer houses?
Under the 1830 Act any householder who paid rates could apply, with a one-off payment of two guineas , to sell beer or cider in his home and even to brew his own on his premises	What is the approximate modern value of two guineas in 1830?
In the first year, 400 beer houses opened and within eight years there were 46,000 across the country, far outnumbering the combined total of long-established taverns, pubs, inns and hotels	How many beer houses opened their doors in the inaugural year of the Beer Act?
The vast majority of the beer houses applied for the new licences and became full pubs	What establishments did beer houses become after buying an additional license?
The beer houses tended to avoid the traditional pub names like The Crown, The Red Lion, The Royal Oak etc	Along with The Royal Oak and The Crown, what is a traditional name for a pub?
Tavern owners were required to possess a licence to sell ale, and a separate licence for distilled spirits	In addition to a license to sell spirits, what did tavern owners require a license to sell?
From the mid-19th century on the opening hours of licensed premises in the UK were restricted	In what century were the operating hours of drinking establishments first limited?
The Wine and Beerhouse Act 1869 reintroduced the stricter controls of the previous century	What law mandated a license from the local magistrate to sell beer?
Many of these records survive and can be viewed, for example, at the London Metropolitan Archives centre	Where can historical licensing records be examined?
The restrictions were tightened by the Defence of the Realm Act of August 1914, which, along with the introduction of rationing and the censorship of the press for wartime purposes, restricted pubs' opening hours to 12 noon–2:30 pm and 6:30 pm–9:30 pm	What law further restricted public houses?
"During the 20th century elsewhere, both the licensing laws and enforcement were progressively relaxed, and there were differences between parishes; in the 1960s, at closing time in Kensington at 10:30 pm, drinkers would rush over the parish boundary to be in good time for ""Last Orders"" in Knightsbridge before 11 pm, a practice observed in many pubs adjoining licensing area boundaries"	What was the mandated closing time of pubs in Kensington in the 1960s?
In England and Wales by 2000 pubs could legally open from 11 am through to 11 pm 	Circa 2000, what was the latest pubs in Wales could be open until on every day but Sunday?
In Scotland, this stemmed out of a late repeal of the wartime licensing laws, which stayed in force until 1976	When were wartime licensing laws ended in Scotland?
The Licensing Act 2003, which came into force on 24 November 2005, consolidated the many laws into a single Act	When did the Licensing Act 2003 come into effect?
"A ""lock-in"" is when a pub owner lets drinkers stay in the pub after the legal closing time, on the theory that once the doors are locked, it becomes a private party rather than a pub"	What is it called when the owner of a pub allows patrons to remain when the pub should have closed?
In March 2006, a law was introduced to forbid smoking in all enclosed public places in Scotland	In what month and year was smoking banned in public places in Scotland?
 Balls Pond Road in Islington was named after an establishment run by a Mr Ball that had a duck pond at the rear, where drinkers could, for a fee, go out and take a potshot at the ducks	What street in Islington was named for a pub run by Mr Ball?
A few pubs have stage performances such as serious drama, stand-up comedy, musical bands, cabaret or striptease; however juke boxes, karaoke and other forms of pre-recorded music have otherwise replaced the musical tradition of a piano or guitar and singing	Along with cabaret, striptease, bands and drama, what is a type of stage performance that can be found in pubs?
By the 20th century, the saloon, or lounge bar, had become a middle-class room—carpets on the floor, cushions on the seats, and a penny or two on the prices, while the public bar, or tap room, remained working class with bare boards, sometimes with sawdust to absorb the spitting and spillages , hard bench seats, and cheap beer	What socioeconomic class was associated with the lounge bar in the 20th century?
 With the blurring of class divisions in the 1960s and 1970s, the distinction between the saloon and the public bar was often seen as archaic, and was frequently abolished, usually by the removal of the dividing wall or partition	In what decades did class distinctions break down in Britain?
"The ""snug"", sometimes called the smoke room, was typically a small, very private room with access to the bar that had a frosted glass external window, set above head height"	What is another name for the smoke room?
CAMRA have surveyed the 50,000 pubs in Britain and they believe that there are very few pubs that still have classic snugs	How many pubs were part of the CAMRA survey?
Until that time beer establishments used to bring the beer out to the table or benches, as remains the practice in beer gardens and other drinking establishments in Germany	In Germany, what do servers do to serve beer in beer gardens?
Isambard Kingdom Brunel, the British engineer and railway builder, introduced the idea of a circular bar into the Swindon station pub in order that customers were served quickly and did not delay his trains	Who pioneered the circular bar?
"A ""beer engine"" is a device for pumping beer, originally manually operated and typically used to dispense beer from a cask or container in a pub's basement or cellar"	"What is a ""beer engine""?"
The first beer pump known in England is believed to have been invented by John Lofting (b	Who invented the beer pump in England?
The London Gazette of 17 March 1691 published a patent in favour of John Lofting for a fire engine, but remarked upon and recommended another invention of his, for a beer pump:	In what newspaper did John Lofting mention his beer pump?
The said Patentee hath also projected a Very Useful Engine for starting of beer and other liquors which will deliver from 20 to 30 barrels an hour which are completely fixed with Brass Joints and Screws at Reasonable Rates	How many barrels did Lofting promise his beer pump would deliver hourly?
"When manually powered, the term ""handpump"" is often used to refer to both the pump and the associated handle"	What is a common name for a beer pump powered by hand?
After the development of the large London Porter breweries in the 18th century, the trend grew for pubs to become tied houses which could only sell beer from one brewery 	What was the name for a pub that could sell beer from more than one brewery?
Most such breweries, such as the regional brewery Shepherd Neame in Kent and Young's and Fuller's in London, control hundreds of pubs in a particular region of the UK, while a few, such as Greene King, are spread nationally	What is a notable brewery in Kent that owns hundreds of pubs?
Organisations such as Wetherspoons, Punch Taverns and O'Neill's were formed in the UK in the wake of the Beer Orders	Along with Punch Taverns and Weatherspoons, what was an organization formed as a result of the Beer Orders?
Newly acquired pubs are often renamed by the new owners, and many people resent the loss of traditional names, especially if their favourite regional beer disappears at the same time	When a pub is bought by a new owner, what often happens to them?
A brewery tap is the nearest outlet for a brewery's beers	What is the closest outlet for a brewery's beers called?
"A ""country pub"" by tradition is a rural public house"	What is another name for a rural public house?
In more recent years, however, many country pubs have either closed down, or have been converted to establishments intent on providing seating facilities for the consumption of food, rather than a venue for members of the local community meeting and convivially drinking	What is a frequent modern function of country pubs?
Pubs that cater for a niche clientele, such as sports fans or people of certain nationalities are known as theme pubs	What is a blanket term for pubs that, for example, cater to sports fans?
In 1393 King Richard II compelled landlords to erect signs outside their premises	Which monarch required landlords to post a sign if they wanted to sell ale?
Another important factor was that during the Middle Ages a large proportion of the population would have been illiterate and so pictures on a sign were more useful than words as a means of identifying a public house	In what historical period was a large portion of the population illiterate?
Some pubs have Latin inscriptions	Inscriptions from what language were sometimes present on pub signs?
Trafalgar), explorers, local notables, discoveries, sporting heroes and members of the royal family	What was an example of a battle that might lend itself to a pub name?
Most British pubs still have decorated signs hanging over their doors, and these retain their original function of enabling the identification of the pub	What hangs today over most British pub doors?
"Modern names are sometimes a marketing ploy or attempt to create ""brand awareness"", frequently using a comic theme thought to be memorable, Slug and Lettuce for a pub chain being an example"	What is an example of a memorable name for a pub chain?
As many pubs are centuries old, many of their early customers were unable to read, and pictorial signs could be readily recognised when lettering and words could not be read	What type of pub signs were useful to an illiterate clientele?
These pubs were named after John Manners, Marquess of Granby, who was the son of John Manners, 3rd Duke of Rutland and a general in the 18th century British Army	After whom was the Marquis of Granby pub named?
"Many names for pubs that appear nonsensical may have come from corruptions of old slogans or phrases, such as ""The Bag o'Nails"" , ""The Goat and Compasses"" , ""The Cat and the Fiddle"" and ""The Bull and Bush"", which purportedly celebrates the victory of Henry VIII at ""Boulogne Bouche"" or Boulogne-sur-Mer Harbour"	"The pub ""The Bag o'Nails"" was a corruption of what word?"
In recent decades the game of pool has increased in popularity as well as other table based games such as snooker or Table Football becoming common	What game played in both Britain and America has become increasingly popular in pubs?
Increasingly, more modern games such as video games and slot machines are provided	Along with slot machines, what is a modern game that is increasingly present in pubs?
"Many of these teams are in leagues that play matches on Sundays, hence the term ""Sunday League Football"""	What is the term for pub-based football that is often played on Sundays?
Feelgood and The Kursaal Flyers, who formed a musical genre called Pub rock that was a precursor to Punk music	Dr. Feelgood and the Kursaal Flyers are examples of bands from what genre of music?
"Many pubs were drinking establishments, and little emphasis was placed on the serving of food, other than sandwiches and ""bar snacks"", such as pork scratchings, pickled eggs, salted crisps and peanuts which helped to increase beer sales"	Pork scratchings, pickled eggs and salted crisps are examples of what type of food?
"In the 1950s some British pubs would offer ""a pie and a pint"", with hot individual steak and ale pies made easily on the premises by the proprietor's wife during the lunchtime opening hours"	"During what decade did some British pubs provide ""a pie and a pint""?"
"""Pub grub"" expanded to include British food items such as steak and ale pie, shepherd's pie, fish and chips, bangers and mash, Sunday roast, ploughman's lunch, and pasties"	What are foods like fish and chips and chicken wings called when they're served at a pub?
Since the 1990s food has become a more important part of a pub's trade, and today most pubs serve lunches and dinners at the table in addition to snacks consumed at the bar	During what decade did food become an important aspect of a pub's business?
The name is a portmanteau of pub and gastronomy and was coined in 1991 when David Eyre and Mike Belben took over The Eagle pub in Clerkenwell, London	What two words is 'gastropub' a portanteau of?
The National Trust owns thirty-six public houses of historic interest including the George Inn, Southwark, London and The Crown Liquor Saloon, Belfast, Northern Ireland	How many pubs does the National Trust own?
The highest pub in the United Kingdom is the Tan Hill Inn, Yorkshire, at 1,732 feet above sea level	What pub in England is the highest above sea level?
Ye Olde Fighting Cocks in St Albans, Hertfordshire, holds the Guinness World Record for the oldest pub in England, as it is an 11th-century structure on an 8th-century site	What pub holds the Guinness World Record as the oldest in England?
There is archaeological evidence that parts of the foundations of The Old Ferryboat Inn in Holywell may date to AD 460, and there is evidence of ale being served as early as AD 560	Where is The Old Ferryboat Inn located?
The Bingley Arms, Bardsey, Yorkshire, is claimed to date to 905 AD	When does The Bingley Arms claim to have been founded?
The town of Stalybridge in Cheshire is thought to have the pubs with both the longest and shortest names in the United Kingdom — The Old 13th Cheshire Rifleman Corps Inn and the Q Inn	What town is the Q Inn located in?
Others claim the smoking ban of 2007, intense competition from gastro-pubs, the availability of cheap alcohol in supermarkets or the general economic climate are either to blame, or are factors in the decline	When was a smoking ban passed in the United Kingdom?
The Lost Pubs Project listed 28,095 closed pubs on 21 April 2015, with photographs of many	How many closed pubs did The Lost Pubs Project catalog?
The highwayman Dick Turpin used the Swan Inn at Woughton-on-the-Green in Buckinghamshire as his base	Who was based out of the Swan Inn?
Many of London's pubs are known to have been used by famous people, but in some cases, such as the association between Samuel Johnson and Ye Olde Cheshire Cheese, this is speculative, based on little more than the fact that the person is known to have lived nearby	What pub was associated with Samuel Johnson, perhaps erroneously?
The Fitzroy Tavern is a pub situated at 16 Charlotte Street in the Fitzrovia district, to which it gives its name	What is the street address of The Fitzroy Tavern?
The Red Lion in Parliament Square is close to the Palace of Westminster and is consequently used by political journalists and members of parliament	Where is the Red Lion located?
In 1966 The Blind Beggar in Whitechapel became infamous as the scene of a murder committed by gangster Ronnie Kray	At what pub did Ronnie Kray kill someone in 1966?
The Angel, Islington was formerly a coaching inn, the first on the route northwards out of London, where Thomas Paine is believed to have written much of The Rights of Man	At what pub did Thomas Paine write The Rights of Man?
The Eagle and Child and the Lamb and Flag, Oxford, were regular meeting places of the Inklings, a writers' group which included J	Along with the Eagle and Child, at what pub did the Inklings regularly meet?
The Rovers Return is the pub in Coronation Street, the British soap broadcast on ITV	What pub is feature on the British soap opera Coronation Street?
"Although ""British"" pubs found outside of Britain and its former colonies are often themed bars owing little to the original British pub, a number of ""true"" pubs may be found around the world"	"What would be a more accurate classification for many ""British"" pubs found outside Britain?"
"In Denmark—a country, like Britain, with a long tradition of brewing—a number of pubs have opened which eschew ""theming"", and which instead focus on the business of providing carefully conditioned beer, often independent of any particular brewery or chain, in an environment which would not be unfamiliar to a British pub-goer"	What continental European country has pubs that would be familiar to a Briton?
"In Ireland, pubs are known for their atmosphere or ""craic"""	What is the native Irish term for a pub's atmosphere?
"The most popular term in English-speaking Canada used for a drinking establishment was ""tavern"", until the 1970s when the term ""bar"" became widespread as in the United States"	Traditionally, what was the popular term for a drinking establishment in English-speaking Canada?
An Internet service provider is an organization that provides services for accessing, using, the Internet	What does ISP stand for?
Internet services typically provided by ISPs include Internet access, Internet transit, domain name registration, web hosting, Usenet service, and colocation	What type of organization provides internet access?
The Internet was developed as a network between government research laboratories and participating departments of universities	Why was the internet developed?
In 1989, the first ISPs were established in Australia and the United States	Where were the first isps established?
Federal Communications Commission was reported to be considering a new rule that will permit ISPs to offer content providers a faster track to send content, thus reversing their earlier net neutrality position	What would the absence of net neutrality permit? 
On 26 February 2015, the FCC ruled in favor of net neutrality by adopting Title II of the Communications Act of 1934 and Section 706 in the Telecommunications act of 1996 to the Internet	When did the FCC rule on net neturality?
"On 13 April 2015, the FCC published the final rule on its new ""Net Neutrality"" regulations"	When did the FCC publish its final rule on net neutrality regulations?
ISPs provide Internet access, employing a range of technologies to connect users to their network	What do ISPs provide?
Using fiber-optics to end users is called Fiber To The Home or similar names	what is it called when fiber-optics are used for end users?
For customers with more demanding requirements can use higher-speed DSL , Ethernet, metropolitan Ethernet, gigabit Ethernet, Frame Relay, ISDN Primary Rate Interface, ATM and synchronous optical networking 	What type of customers would typically have more demanding requirements? 
A mailbox provider is an organization that provides services for hosting electronic mail domains with access to storage for mail boxes	What is a mailbox provider? 
The task is typically accomplished by implementing Simple Mail Transfer Protocol and possibly providing access to messages through Internet Message Access Protocol , the Post Office Protocol, Webmail, or a proprietary protocol	What is SMTP?
Internet hosting services provide email, web-hosting, or online storage services	What do internet hosting services provide? 
Just as their customers pay them for Internet access, ISPs themselves pay upstream ISPs for Internet access	Who does an ISP pay for internet access?
In the simplest case, a single connection is established to an upstream ISP and is used to transmit data to or from areas of the Internet beyond the home network; this mode of interconnection is often cascaded multiple times until reaching a tier 1 carrier	What is the simplest case of an ISP using an upstream ISP? 
A virtual ISP is an operation that purchases services from another ISP, sometimes called a wholesale ISP in this context, which allow the VISP's customers to access the Internet using services and infrastructure owned and operated by the wholesale ISP	What is a VISP?
Free ISPs are Internet service providers that provide service free of charge	What are free ISPs?
A wireless Internet service provider is an Internet service provider with a network based on wireless networking	What is a WISP? 
ISPs may engage in peering, where multiple ISPs interconnect at peering points or Internet exchange points , allowing routing of data between each network, without charging one another for the data transmitted—data that would otherwise have passed through a third upstream ISP, incurring charges from the upstream ISP	What is peering? 
A tradeoff between cost and efficiency is possible	Is a tradeoff between efficiency and cost possible? 
Furthermore, in some countries ISPs are subject to monitoring by intelligence agencies	What are ISPs subject to monitoring by in some countries? 
Cartooning and similar forms of illustration are the most common image-making means in comics; fumetti is a form which uses photographic images	Which form of comics entails the use of photographic images?
The history of European comics is often traced to Rodolphe Töpffer's cartoon strips of the 1830s, and became popular following the success in the 1930s of strips and books such as The Adventures of Tintin	When did Rodolphe Töpffer create cartoons?
It is common in English to refer to the comics of different cultures by the terms used in their original languages, such as manga for Japanese comics, or bandes dessinées for French-language comics	French comics are also known as what?
Europeans have seen their tradition as beginning with the Swiss Rodolphe Töpffer from as early as 1827 and Americans have seen the origin of theirs in Richard F	Who is best known for being the first comics creator in Europe?
Outside of these genealogies, comics theorists and historians have seen precedents for comics in the Lascaux cave paintings in France , Egyptian hieroglyphs, Trajan's Column in Rome, the 11th-century Norman Bayeux Tapestry, the 1370 bois Protat woodcut, the 15th-century Ars moriendi and block books, Michelangelo's The Last Judgment in the Sistine Chapel, and William Hogarth's 17th-century sequential engravings, amongst others	In France, what did historians find that they consider a precedent for comics?
Illustrated humour periodicals were popular in 19th-century Britain, the earliest of which was the short-lived The Glasgow Looking Glass in 1825	What was the first illustrated humor periodical in Britain during the 19th century?
The success of illustrated humour supplements in the New York World and later the New York American, particularly Outcault's The Yellow Kid, led to the development of newspaper comic strips	Which outlet did comic supplements find success in?
Shorter, black-and-white daily strips began to appear early in the 20th century, and became established in newspapers after the success in 1907 of Bud Fisher's Mutt and Jeff	What comic strip did Bud Fisher have success with?
Following a sales peak in the early 1950s, the content of comic books was subjected to scrutiny from parent groups and government agencies, which culminated in Senate hearings that led to the establishment of the Comics Code Authority self-censoring body	Which genre of comic books had parents concerned?
From the 1980s, mainstream sensibilities were reasserted and serialization became less common as the number of comics magazines decreased and many comics began to be published directly as albums	Serialization of comics became less popular when?
Japanese comics and cartooning , have a history that has been seen as far back as the anthropomorphic characters in the 12th-to-13th-century Chōjū-jinbutsu-giga, 17th-century toba-e and kibyōshi picture books, and woodblock prints such as ukiyo-e which were popular between the 17th and 20th centuries	What picture books from the 17th century show manga origins?
New publications in both the Western and Japanese styles became popular, and at the end of the 1890s, American-style newspaper comics supplements began to appear in Japan, as well as some American comic strips	When did comic supplements start showing up in Japan?
The modern era of comics in Japan began after World War II, propelled by the success of the serialized comics of the prolific Osamu Tezuka and the comic strip Sazae-san	What comic strip was created by Osamu Tezuka?
Comic strips are generally short, multipanel comics that traditionally most commonly appeared in newspapers	Where do comics usually appear?
European and Japanese comics are frequently serialized in magazines—monthly or weekly in Europe, and usually black-and-white and weekly in Japan	Where do serialized comics in Japan typically appear?
In English-speaking countries, bound volumes of comics are called graphic novels and are available in various formats	What are bounds volumes of comics called in America?
"Gag cartoons first began to proliferate in broadsheets published in Europe in the 18th and 19th centuries, and the term ""cartoon"" was first used to describe them in 1843 in the British humour magazine Punch"	Where did gag cartoons first make an appearance?
Comics in the US has had a lowbrow reputation stemming from its roots in mass culture; cultural elites sometimes saw popular culture as threatening culture and society	What did comics have in the United States because of cultural roots?
The graphic novel—book-length comics—began to gain attention after Will Eisner popularized the term with his book A Contract with God 	What is a comic that is as long as a book called?
The francophone Swiss Rodolphe Töpffer produced comic strips beginning in 1827, and published theories behind the form	Who started producing comic strips and theories about them in 1827?
"As in the US, at the time comics were seen as infantile and a threat to culture and literacy; commentators stated that ""none bear up to the slightest serious analysis"", and that comics were ""the sabotage of all art and all literature"""	In the United States in the middle of the 20th century comics were seen as a risk to culture and what?
"Cartoonists began creating comics for mature audiences, and the term ""Ninth Art"" was coined, as comics began to attract public and academic attention as an artform"	Comics for adults began to be called what?
Frustration with censorship and editorial interference led to a group of Pilote cartoonists to found the adults-only L'Écho des savanes in 1972	Pilote cartoonists were upset with censorship and what?
The first historical overview of Japanese comics was Seiki Hosokibara's Nihon Manga-Shi in 1924	Which historical overview did Seiki Hosokibara create?
Coulton Waugh attempted the first comprehensive history of American comics with The Comics 	Who put together a history of American comics in 1947?
The French term for comics, bandes dessinées emphasizes the juxtaposition of drawn images as a defining factor, which can imply the exclusion of even photographic comics	What word is used in France for comics?
Webcomics are comics that are available on the internet	What comics are on the Internet?
Wordless novels are books which use sequences of captionless images to deliver a narrative	Storyboards and what are thought to be comics by some?
Similar to the problems of defining literature and film, no consensus has been reached on a definition of the comics medium, and attempted definitions and descriptions have fallen prey to numerous exceptions	What has not been reached as far as defining comics is concerned?
European comics studies began with Töpffer's theories of his own work in the 1840s, which emphasized panel transitions and the visual–verbal combination	In the 1840s, Töpffer wrote theories about whose work?
Many cultures have taken their words for comics from English, including Russian and German 	What Russian word is used for comics?
The English term comics derives from the humorous work which predominated in early American newspaper comic strips; usage of the term has become standard for non-humorous works as well	The word comic comes from the humorous pieces found where?
While comics are often the work of a single creator, the labour of making them is frequently divided between a number of specialists	Though one person typically creates the comic, there are usually a number of what involved in actually designing it?
Panels are individual images containing a segment of action, often surrounded by a border	What are the individual images with action called in comics?
Speech balloons indicate dialogue , with tails pointing at their respective speakers	What association with comics is strong?
Cartooning is most frequently used in making comics, traditionally using ink with dip pens or ink brushes; mixed media and digital technology have become common	What type of ink is often used in making comics?
"The term comics refers to the comics medium when used as an uncountable noun and thus takes the singular: ""comics is a medium"" rather than ""comics are a medium"""	The term comedies refers to what?
It was named after Saint Helena of Constantinople	What is Saint Helena tropical island named after?
The island was uninhabited when discovered by the Portuguese in 1502	When was the island discovered?
This environmental intervention was closely linked to the conceptualisation of the processes of environmental change and helped establish the roots of environmentalism	The roots of what were established on Saint Helena?
"Most historical accounts state that the island was discovered on 21 May 1502 by the Galician navigator João da Nova sailing at the service of Portugal, and that he named it ""Santa Helena"" after Helena of Constantinople"	What date was the island discovered on?
They imported livestock, fruit trees and vegetables, and built a chapel and one or two houses	What was imported by the settlers of the island?
Englishman Sir Francis Drake probably located the island on the final leg of his circumnavigation of the world 	Who probably located the island on their final leg of their circumnavigation trip?
The Dutch Republic formally made claim to Saint Helena in 1633, although there is no evidence that they ever occupied, colonised or fortified it	Who claimed Saint Helena in 1633?
In 1657, Oliver Cromwell granted the English East India Company a charter to govern Saint Helena and the following year the company decided to fortify the island and colonise it with planters	Who was granted a charter to govern Saint Helena?
The company experienced difficulty attracting new immigrants, and sentiments of unrest and rebellion fomented among the inhabitants	What did the English East India Company have difficulty attracting?
From about 1770, the island enjoyed a lengthy period of prosperity	When did the Island start to experience a period of prosperity?
On leaving the University of Oxford, in 1676, Edmond Halley visited Saint Helena and set up an astronomical observatory with a 7	Who set up an astronomical observatory on Saint Helena?
Throughout this period, Saint Helena was an important port of call of the East India Company	Saint Helena was an important port of which company?
The importation of slaves was made illegal in 1792	What was made illegal in 1792?
In 1815, the British government selected Saint Helena as the place of detention of Napoleon Bonaparte	The British government detained who in Saint Helena?
After Napoleon's death, the thousands of temporary visitors were soon withdrawn and the East India Company resumed full control of Saint Helena	Who took full control of the island after Napoleon's death?
Owing to Napoleon's praise of Saint Helena’s coffee during his exile on the island, the product enjoyed a brief popularity in Paris in the years after his death	Which product of Saint Helena was praised by Napoleon?
Although the importation of slaves to St Helena had been banned in 1792, the phased emancipation of over 800 resident slaves did not take place until 1827, which was still some six years before the British Parliament passed legislation to ban slavery in the colonies	When was importation of slaves banned in Saint Helena?
Under the provisions of the 1833 India Act, control of Saint Helena was passed from the East India Company to the British Crown, becoming a crown colony	What act gave control of Saint Helena to the British Crown?
"In 1840, a British naval station established to suppress the African slave trade was based on the island, and between 1840 and 1849 over 15,000 freed slaves, known as ""Liberated Africans"", were landed there"	Who established a naval station to cut down on African slave trade on the island in 1840?
In 1858, the French emperor Napoleon III successfully gained the possession, in the name of the French government, of Longwood House and the lands around it, last residence of Napoleon I 	Which french emperor gained possession of Longwood house and the land surrounding it?
On 11 April 1898 American Joshua Slocum, on his famous and epic solo round the world voyage arrived at Jamestown	Who arrived in Jamestown during their solo round the world voyage?
A local industry manufacturing fibre from New Zealand flax was successfully reestablished in 1907 and generated considerable income during the First World War	What country does the local industry that manufactures fibre get their flax from?
During this period, the island enjoyed increased revenues through the sale of flax, with prices peaking in 1951	What did the Island sell for increased revenue during this period?
From 1958, the Union Castle shipping line gradually reduced its service calls to the island	What year did the Union Castle shipping line slowly start to reduce their service calls to the island?
The islanders lost their right of abode in Britain	What right was lost by the citizen of the islands due to the act?
In 1989, Prince Andrew launched the replacement RMS St Helena to serve the island; the vessel was specially built for the Cardiff–Cape Town route and features a mixed cargo/passenger layout	What year was the replacement for the RMS St Helena launched?
The Saint Helena Constitution took effect in 1989 and provided that the island would be governed by a Governor and Commander-in-Chief, and an elected Executive and Legislative Council	What year did the Saint Helena Constitution officially take effect?
The UK government has spent £250 million in the construction of the island's airport	How much money was spent on construction of the island's airport?
The nearest port on the continent is Namibe in southern Angola, and the nearest international airport the Quatro de Fevereiro Airport of Angola's capital Luanda; connections to Cape Town in South Africa are used for most shipping needs, such as the mail boat that serves the island, the RMS St Helena	What is the nearest port to Saint Helena?
The island of Saint Helena has a total area of 122 km2 , and is composed largely of rugged terrain of volcanic origin 	How many square miles is Saint Helena?
There are several rocks and islets off the coast, including: Castle Rock, Speery Island, the Needle, Lower Black Rock, Upper Black Rock , Bird Island , Black Rock, Thompson's Valley Island, Peaked Island, Egg Island, Lady's Chair, Lighter Rock , Long Ledge , Shore Island, George Island, Rough Rock Island, Flat Rock , the Buoys, Sandy Bay Island, the Chimney, White Bird Island and Frightus Rock , all of which are within one kilometre (0	How close are the rockets and islets off the coast?
The national bird of Saint Helena is the Saint Helena plover, known locally as the wirebird	What is the national bird of Saint Helena?
The climate of Saint Helena is tropical, marine and mild, tempered by the Benguela Current and trade winds that blow almost continuously	What current affects the environment of Saint Helena?
Saint Helena is divided into eight districts, each with a community centre	How many districts is the island of Saint Helena divided into?
Saint Helena was first settled by the English in 1659, and the island has a population of about 4,250 inhabitants, mainly descended from people from Britain – settlers and soldiers – and slaves who were brought there from the beginning of settlement – initially from Africa , then India and Madagascar	When was Saint Helena first settled?
In 1840, St Helena became a provisioning station for the British West Africa Squadron, preventing slavery to Brazil , and many thousands of slaves were freed on the island	In 1840 what did Saint Helena become?
Imported Chinese labourers arrived in 1810, reaching a peak of 618 in 1818, after which numbers were reduced	When did Imported Chinese labor arrive?
The citizens of Saint Helena hold British Overseas Territories citizenship	What kind of citizenship do the citizens of Saint Helena hold?
During periods of unemployment, there has been a long pattern of emigration from the island since the post-Napoleonic period	What was there a long pattern of from the island starting during the post Napoleonic period?
Most residents belong to the Anglican Communion and are members of the Diocese of St Helena, which has its own bishop and includes Ascension Island	What communion do most residents of the island belong to?
Other Christian denominations on the island include: Roman Catholic , Salvation Army , Baptist and, in more recent times, Seventh-day Adventist , New Apostolic and Jehovah's Witnesses 	When did Roman Catholics start to appear on the island?
Executive authority in Saint Helena is vested in Queen Elizabeth II and is exercised on her behalf by the Governor of Saint Helena	Who has executive authority in Saint Helena?
These proposals were put to a referendum on 23 March 2013 where they were defeated by 158 votes to 42 on a 10% turnout	How many seats are in the Legislative Council of Saint Helena?
One commentator has observed that, notwithstanding the high unemployment resulting from the loss of full passports during 1981–2002, the level of loyalty to the British monarchy by the St Helena population is probably not exceeded in any other part of the world	What caused high unemployment on the island?
Work is being done under this action plan, including publishing awareness-raising articles in local newspapers, providing support for members of the public with human rights queries, and extending several UN Conventions on human rights to St	What kind of articles were published to help this plan?
], there have been reports of child abuse in St Helena	What has been more prominently reported in recent years in Saint Helena?
St Helena has long been known for its high proportion of endemic birds and vascular plants	Saint Helena has a high proportion of what kind of birds?
To date, very little is known about these, although more than 200 lichen-forming fungi have been recorded, including 9 endemics, suggesting that many significant discoveries remain to be made	How many lichen forming fungi have been recorded on the island?
9	How many endemic species of fungi have been found?
The island had a monocrop economy until 1966, based on the cultivation and processing of New Zealand flax for rope and string	What kind of crop economy did the Island originally have?
The tourist industry is heavily based on the promotion of Napoleon's imprisonment	What is the tourist industry mostly based around?
Saint Helena produces what is said to be the most expensive coffee in the world	What does Saint Helena have the most expensive of?
Quoted at constant 2002 prices, GDP fell from £12 million in 1999-2000 to £11 million in 2005-06	What was the GDP of the island in 1999-2000?
Public expenditure rose from £10 million in 2001-02 to £12 million in 2005-06 to £28m in 2012-13	How much was public expenditure on the island in 2001-2002?
Unemployment levels are low 	How many individuals were unemployed on the island in 2013?
Household survey results suggest the percentage of households spending less than £20 per week on a per capita basis fell from 27% to 8% between 2000 and 2004, implying a decline in income poverty	What % of households were spending less than £20 per week in 2004
In 1821, Saul Solomon issued a 70,560 copper tokens worth a halfpenny each Payable at St Helena by Solomon, Dickson and Taylor – presumably London partners – that circulated alongside the East India Company's local coinage until the Crown took over the island in 1836	How many copper tokens were Issued in 1821?
Today Saint Helena has its own currency, the Saint Helena pound, which is at parity with the pound sterling	What is the Saint Helena currency?
A large military airfield is located on Ascension Island, with two Friday flights to RAF Brize Norton, England 	How many commercial airports are under construction in Saint Helena?
The ship RMS Saint Helena runs between St Helena and Cape Town on a 5-day voyage, also visiting Ascension Island and Walvis Bay, and occasionally voyaging north to Tenerife and Portland, UK	What ship runs between Saint Helena and Cape town on 5 day voyages?
After a long period of rumour and consultation, the British government announced plans to construct an airport in Saint Helena in March 2005	When was the construction of an airport in Saint Helena announced?
On 22 July 2010, the British government agreed to help pay for the new airport using taxpayer money	When did the British government agree to help pay for the new airport in Saint Helena?
The first aircraft, a South African Beechcraft King Air 200, landed at the new airport on 15 September 2015, prior to conducting a series of flights to calibrate the airport's radio navigation equipment	What kind of aircraft was the first to land at the new airport?
2 ZZ377 from 825 Squadron 201 Flight, embarked on visiting HMS Lancaster on 23 October 2015	Where did the helicopter embark on visiting?
A minibus offers a basic service to carry people around Saint Helena, with most services designed to take people into Jamestown for a few hours on weekdays to conduct their business	What kind of vehicle offers basic transportation to people in Saint Helena?
Radio St Helena, which started operations on Christmas Day 1967, provided a local radio service that had a range of about 100 km from the island, and also broadcast internationally on shortwave radio (11092	What day did Radio Saint Helena start operations?
1	How many days a year was Radio Saint Helena broadcast internationally?
It was launched in January 2005 and closed on 21 December 2012	What date was Saint FM radio launched?
Saint FM Community Radio took over the radio channels vacated by Saint FM and launched on 10 March 2013	Which company took over the channels vacated by Saint FM?
St Helena Online is a not-for-profit internet news service run from the UK by a former print and BBC journalist, working in partnership with Saint FM and the St Helena Independent	Who runs Saint Helena online?
Sure South Atlantic Ltd offers television for the island via 17 analogue terrestrial UHF channels, offering a mix of British, US, and South African programming	What does Sure South Atlantic LTD offer?
SURE provide the telecommunications service in the territory through a digital copper-based telephone network including ADSL-broadband service	SURE provides what kind of service to the territory?
6-metre satellite dish installed in 1989 at The Briars is the only international connection providing satellite links through Intelsat 707 to Ascension island and the United Kingdom	How big is the satellite dish at the satellite ground station in feet?
Saint Helena has the international calling code +290 which, since 2006, Tristan da Cunha shares	What is the international calling code for Saint Helena?
2	What digit are Saint Helena phone numbers prefixed with?
6 Mbit/s internet link via Intelsat 707 provided by SURE	What is the internet service provided through?
ADSL-broadband service is provided with maximum speeds of up to 1536 KBit/s downstream and 512 KBit/s upstream offered on contract levels from lite £16 per month to gold+ at £190 per month	What kind of broadband service is provided on the island?
The South Atlantic Express, a 10,000 km submarine communications cable connecting Africa to South America, run by the undersea fibre optic provider eFive, will pass St Helena relatively closely	How long is the South Atlantic Express in miles?
The island has two local newspapers, both of which are available on the Internet	How many local newspapers does the island have?
At the beginning of the academic year 2009-10, 230 students were enrolled in primary school and 286 in secondary school	How many primary schools does the island have?
The island has a public library and a mobile library service which operates weekly rural areas	When does the mobile library service operate?
The UK national curriculum is adapted for local use	What curriculum does the island adapt?
Saint Helena is a member of the International Island Games Association	Saint Helena is a member of what kind of association?
The Governor's Cup is a yacht race between Cape Town and Saint Helena island, held every two years in December/January; the most recent event was in December 2010	Where does the Governor's cup take place? 
There are scouting and guiding groups on Saint Helena and Ascension Island	What kind of groups are on Saint Helena and Ascension Island?
In phonetics, aspiration is the strong burst of breath that accompanies either the release or, in the case of preaspiration, the closure of some obstruents	Aspiration and preaspiration are used in what?
To feel or see the difference between aspirated and unaspirated sounds, one can put a hand or a lit candle in front of one's mouth, and say pin and then spin 	With what word should you see a candle flicker or feel a puff of air?
In the International Phonetic Alphabet , aspirated consonants are written using the symbols for voiceless consonants followed by the aspiration modifier letter ⟨◌ʰ⟩, a superscript form of the symbol for the voiceless glottal fricative ⟨h⟩	What does IPA stand for?
p	What modifier indicates a voiceless bilabial stop?
Voiced consonants are seldom actually aspirated	What is not often aspirated?
There are no dedicated IPA symbols for degrees of aspiration and typically only two degrees are marked: unaspirated ⟨k⟩ and aspirated ⟨kʰ⟩	There are no IPA symbols for what?
Preaspirated consonants are marked by placing the aspiration modifier letter before the consonant symbol: ⟨ʰp⟩ represents the preaspirated bilabial stop	A preaspirated consonant is marked how?
Unaspirated or tenuis consonants are occasionally marked with the modifier letter for unaspiration ⟨◌˭⟩, a superscript equal sign: ⟨t˭⟩	How are unaspirated or tenuis consonants sometimes marked for unaspiration?
Voiceless consonants are produced with the vocal folds open and not vibrating, and voiced consonants are produced when the vocal folds are fractionally closed and vibrating 	What is created when the vocal folds are spread and do not vibrate?
Phonetically in some languages, such as Navajo, aspiration of stops tends to be realised as voiceless velar airflow; aspiration of affricates is realised as an extended length of the frication	Aspiration of stops is seen as voiceless velar airflow in some languages, such as what?
For example, in Eastern Armenian, aspiration is contrastive even word-finally, and aspirated consonants occur in consonant clusters	In Eastern Armenian, aspirated consonants occur in what?
Armenian and Cantonese have aspiration that lasts about as long as English aspirated stops, in addition to unaspirated stops	As well as lasting as long as an English aspirated stop, the Armenian and Cantonese aspiration lasts as long as what?
Aspiration varies with place of articulation	Aspiration alters with what?
An aspirated affricate consists of a stop, fricative, and aspirated release	What is comprised of a stop, fricative, and aspirated release?
Icelandic and Faroese have preaspirated ; some scholars interpret these as consonant clusters as well	What two languages mentioned have have preaspirated ?
I	Icelandic and English have preaspirated what?
Preaspirated stops also occur in most Sami languages; for example, in North Sami, the unvoiced stop and affricate phonemes /p/, /t/, /ts/, /tʃ/, /k/ are pronounced preaspirated , , , ) when they occur in medial or final position	The Sami tongue also has what?
Some languages, such as Choni Tibetan, have up to four contrastive aspirated fricatives , and 	How many contrastive aspirated fricatives does Choni Tibetan have?
True aspirated voiced consonants, as opposed to murmured consonants such as the , , that are common in the languages of India, are extremely rare	Indian languages commonly have murmured consonants instead of what?
Aspiration has varying significance in different languages	What has a different significance in various languages?
In some languages, such as English, aspiration is allophonic	Aspiration is what, in English and some other languages?
They are unaspirated for almost all speakers when immediately following word-initial s, as in spill, still, skill	When following a word such as spill, they are what for most speakers?
s	What word-initial is aspirated for almost all speakers?
In many languages, such as Armenian, Korean, Thai, Indo-Aryan languages, Dravidian languages, Icelandic, Ancient Greek, and the varieties of Chinese, tenuis and aspirated consonants are phonemic	In languages like Thai and Icelandic, tenuis and aspirated consonants are what?
I	An example of an unaspirated stop is?
"In Danish and most southern varieties of German, the ""lenis"" consonants transcribed for historical reasons as ⟨b d ɡ⟩ are distinguished from their fortis counterparts ⟨p t k⟩, mainly in their lack of aspiration"	How are lenis consonants distinguished from fortis consonants?
Standard Chinese has stops and affricates distinguished by aspiration: for instance, /t tʰ/, /t͡s t͡sʰ/	Mandarin has stops and affricates that are distinguished by what?
Wu Chinese has a three-way distinction in stops and affricates: /p pʰ b/	What has a three-way distinction in regards to stops and affricates?
Sanskrit, Hindi, Bengali, Marathi, and Gujarati have a four-way distinction in stops: voiceless, aspirated, voiced, and breathy-voiced or voiced aspirated, such as /p pʰ b bʱ/	How many distinctions in stops do languages like Bengali and Hindi have?
Some of the Dravidian languages, such as Telugu, Tamil, Malayalam, and Kannada, have a distinction between voiced and voiceless, aspirated and unaspirated only in loanwords from Indo-Aryan languages	Telegu, Kannada and others are considered to be some of the what languages?
Western Armenian has a two-way distinction between aspirated and voiced: /tʰ d/	What language has two-way distinctions between aspirated and voiced?
The Classical Attic dialect of Ancient Greek had a three-way distinction in stops like Eastern Armenian: /t tʰ d/	What Greek dialect had three-way stop distinction like Eastern Armenian?
There were aspirated stops at three places of articulation: labial, coronal, and velar /pʰ tʰ kʰ/	What is the representation for the three places of articulation?
The other Ancient Greek dialects, Ionic, Doric, Aeolic, and Arcadocypriot, likely had the same three-way distinction at one point, but Doric seems to have had a fricative in place of /tʰ/ in the Classical period, and the Ionic and Aeolic dialects sometimes lost aspiration 	Dialects such as Aeolic and Doric had how many distinctions that were the same at one point in time?
Later, during the Koine Greek period, the aspirated and voiceless stops /tʰ d/ of Attic Greek lenited to voiceless and voiced fricatives, yielding /θ ð/ in Medieval and Modern Greek	Attic Greek lenited to what?
The term aspiration sometimes refers to the sound change of debuccalization, in which a consonant is lenited to become a glottal stop or fricative 	Aspiration may refer to a sound change of what?
So-called voiced aspirated consonants are nearly always pronounced instead with breathy voice, a type of phonation or vibration of the vocal folds	What is breathy voice?
Some linguists restrict the double-dot subscript ⟨◌̤⟩ to murmured sonorants, such as vowels and nasals, which are murmured throughout their duration, and use the superscript hook-aitch ⟨◌ʱ⟩ for the breathy-voiced release of obstruents	What do some linguists restrict the double-dot subscript ⟨◌̤⟩ to?
Hydrogen is a chemical element with chemical symbol H and atomic number 1	What is hydrogens chemical symbol?
1	What is the atomic number used for hydrogen?
At standard temperature and pressure, hydrogen is a colorless, odorless, tasteless, non-toxic, nonmetallic, highly combustible diatomic gas with the molecular formula H2	What form can you find hydrogen is on Earth?
Hydrogen gas was first artificially produced in the early 16th century, via the mixing of metals with acids	When was hydrogen gas artificially produced for the first time?
, hydrocracking) and ammonia production, mostly for the fertilizer market	What market primarily uses ammonia production?
The enthalpy of combustion for hydrogen is −286 kJ/mol:	For hydrogen what is the enthalpy of combustion?
Pure hydrogen-oxygen flames emit ultraviolet light and with high oxygen mix are nearly invisible to the naked eye, as illustrated by the faint plume of the Space Shuttle Main Engine compared to the highly visible plume of a Space Shuttle Solid Rocket Booster	What kind of light do hydrogen-oxygen flames make?
Hydrogen can react spontaneously and violently at room temperature with chlorine and fluorine to form the corresponding hydrogen halides, hydrogen chloride and hydrogen fluoride, which are also potentially dangerous acids	What are two other dangerous acids?
"The energy levels of hydrogen can be calculated fairly accurately using the Bohr model of the atom, which conceptualizes the electron as ""orbiting"" the proton in analogy to the Earth's orbit of the Sun"	What model id used to calculate energy levels of hydrogen?
"In the quantum mechanical treatment, the electron in a ground state hydrogen atom has no angular momentum at all—an illustration of how the ""planetary orbit"" conception of electron motion differs from reality"	What kind of movement does the electron not have in ground state?
In the orthohydrogen form, the spins of the two protons are parallel and form a triplet state with a molecular spin quantum number of 1 ; in the parahydrogen form the spins are antiparallel and form a singlet with a molecular spin quantum number of 0 	How many different spin isomers exist?
Catalysts for the ortho-para interconversion, such as ferric oxide, activated carbon, platinized asbestos, rare earth metals, uranium compounds, chromic oxide, or some nickel compounds, are used during hydrogen cooling	What are some catalysts used in hydrogen cooling
, F, Cl, Br, I), or oxygen; in these compounds hydrogen takes on a partial positive charge	What ind of charge does hydrogen take when mixed with electronegative particles?
Hydrogen forms a vast array of compounds with carbon called the hydrocarbons, and an even vaster array with heteroatoms that, because of their general association with living things, are called organic compounds	What is the form of hydrogen and carbon called?
An exception in group II hydrides is BeH 2, which is polymeric	What group of hydrides is BEH considered polymeric?
Although hydrides can be formed with almost all main-group elements, the number and combination of possible compounds varies widely; for example, there are over 100 binary borane hydrides known, but only one binary aluminium hydride	How many binary borane hydrides are known?
1	How many binary aluminum hydrides are there?
In inorganic chemistry, hydrides can also serve as bridging ligands that link two metal centers in a coordination complex	What chemistry do hydrides serve as bridging ligands?
Oxidation of hydrogen removes its electron and gives H+, which contains no electrons and a nucleus which is usually composed of one proton	When hydrogen oxidates, what is it removing?
A bare proton, H+, cannot exist in solution or in ionic crystals, because of its unstoppable attraction to other atoms or molecules with electrons	What is another term for a bare proton?
Other oxonium ions are found when water is in acidic solution with other solvents	Where can oxonium ions be found?
Although exotic on Earth, one of the most common ions in the universe is the H+ 3 ion, known as protonated molecular hydrogen or the trihydrogen cation	What kind of molecular hydrogen is the H+3 knows as?
Hydrogen has three naturally occurring isotopes, denoted 1H, 2H and 3H	How many natural isotopes does hydrogen have>
Hydrogen is the only element that has different names for its isotopes in common use today	Which element is the only that has different names for its isotopes?
In 1671, Robert Boyle discovered and described the reaction between iron filings and dilute acids, which results in the production of hydrogen gas	What year was the discovery of hydrogen gas?
Lavoisier produced hydrogen for his experiments on mass conservation by reacting a flux of steam with metallic iron through an incandescent iron tube heated in a fire	How did Lavoisier produce hydrogen for his experiments?
Hydrogen was liquefied for the first time by James Dewar in 1898 by using regenerative cooling and his invention, the vacuum flask	Who was the first to liquidize hydrogen?
The first hydrogen-filled balloon was invented by Jacques Charles in 1783	Who invented the hydrogen filled balloons?
The first non-stop transatlantic crossing was made by the British airship R34 in 1919	Who made the first non stop transatlantic crossing?
In the same year the first hydrogen-cooled turbogenerator went into service with gaseous hydrogen as a coolant in the rotor and the stator in 1937 at Dayton, Ohio, by the Dayton Power & Light Co	In what year did the first hydrogen cooled turbogenerator go into service?
The nickel hydrogen battery was used for the first time in 1977 aboard the U	What year was the first nickel hydrogen battery used?
Because of its simple atomic structure, consisting only of a proton and an electron, the hydrogen atom, together with the spectrum of light produced from it or absorbed by it, has been central to the development of the theory of atomic structure	What is the hydrogen atom made up of?
One of the first quantum effects to be explicitly noticed was a Maxwell observation involving hydrogen, half a century before full quantum mechanical theory arrived	Who observed the specific heat capacity of H2?
Hydrogen, as atomic H, is the most abundant chemical element in the universe, making up 75% of normal matter by mass and over 90% by number of atoms 	What percent of normal matter is hydrogen?
Throughout the universe, hydrogen is mostly found in the atomic and plasma states whose properties are quite different from molecular hydrogen	In what states is hydrogen mostly found in the universe?
However, hydrogen is the third most abundant element on the Earth's surface, mostly in the form of chemical compounds such as hydrocarbons and water	How abundant is hydrogen on the earths surface?
A molecular form called protonated molecular hydrogen (H+ 3) is found in the interstellar medium, where it is generated by ionization of molecular hydrogen from cosmic rays	What molecular form is found in the interstellar medium?
H 2 is produced in chemistry and biology laboratories, often as a by-product of other reactions; in industry for the hydrogenation of unsaturated substrates; and in nature as a means of expelling reducing equivalents in biochemical reactions	How does nature produce H2?
The electrolysis of water is a simple method of producing hydrogen	What is an easy way to produce hydrogen?
An alloy of aluminium and gallium in pellet form added to water can be used to generate hydrogen	When you combine an alloy of alluminum and gallium to water, what do you get?
Hydrogen can be prepared in several different ways, but economically the most important processes involve removal of hydrogen from hydrocarbons	The most economical way to prepare hydrogen involves removing it from what?
This reaction is favored at low pressures but is nonetheless conducted at high pressures (2	At what pressure does PSA work best in?
Additional hydrogen can be recovered from the steam by use of carbon monoxide through the water gas shift reaction, especially with an iron oxide catalyst	How can it be recovered through steam?
In the Haber process for the production of ammonia, hydrogen is generated from natural gas	When hydrogen is generated from natural gas, what des it produce?
There are more than 200 thermochemical cycles which can be used for water splitting, around a dozen of these cycles such as the iron oxide cycle, cerium oxide–cerium oxide cycle, zinc zinc-oxide cycle, sulfur-iodine cycle, copper-chlorine cycle and hybrid sulfur cycle are under research and in testing phase to produce hydrogen and oxygen from water and heat without using electricity	What are the thermochemical cycyles in a testing phase for?
Under anaerobic conditions, iron and steel alloys are slowly oxidized by the protons of water concomitantly reduced in molecular hydrogen (H 2)	What condition is iron and steel alloys slowly oxidized?
In its turn, under anaerobic conditions, the ferrous hydroxide 2 ) can be oxidized by the protons of water to form magnetite and molecular hydrogen	Under what condition can ferrous hydroxide be oxidized?
In the absence of atmospheric oxygen (O 2), in deep geological conditions prevailing far away from Earth atmosphere, hydrogen (H 2) is produced during the process of serpentinization by the anaerobic oxidation by the water protons of the ferrous silicate present in the crystal lattice of the fayalite (Fe 2SiO 4, the olivine iron-endmember)	How is hydrogen produced when there is no atmospheric oxygen?
From all the fault gases formed in power transformers, hydrogen is the most common and is generated under most fault conditions; thus, formation of hydrogen is an early indication of serious problems in the transformer's life cycle	What is the most common gas found in power tranformers?
Large quantities of H 2 are needed in the petroleum and chemical industries	Where are large quantities of H2 needed?
Hydrogen is highly soluble in many rare earth and transition metals and is soluble in both nanocrystalline and amorphous metals	Where is hydrogen highly soluble?
Apart from its use as a reactant, H 2 has wide applications in physics and engineering	Where else is H2 applied?
In more recent applications, hydrogen is used pure or mixed with nitrogen as a tracer gas for minute leak detection	Why would one use hydrogen mixed with nitrogen?
Deuterium is used in nuclear fission applications as a moderator to slow neutrons, and in nuclear fusion reactions	What isotope is used in nuclear fission?
Hydrogen is commonly used in power stations as a coolant in generators due to a number of favorable properties that are a direct result of its light diatomic molecules	How is hydrogen used at power stations?
Hydrogen is not an energy resource, except in the hypothetical context of commercial nuclear fusion power plants using deuterium or tritium, a technology presently far from development	Is Hydrogen considered an energy resource?
Nevertheless, elemental hydrogen has been widely discussed in the context of energy, as a possible future carrier of energy on an economy-wide scale	What form of hydrogen has been discussed as a ussage for fuel?
It is also a potential electron donor in various oxide materials, including ZnO, SnO2, CdO, MgO, ZrO2, HfO2, La2O3, Y2O3, TiO2, SrTiO3, LaAlO3, SiO2, Al2O3, ZrSiO4, HfSiO4, and SrZrO3	How is hydrogen used in oxide materials?
H2 is a product of some types of anaerobic metabolism and is produced by several microorganisms, usually via reactions catalyzed by iron- or nickel-containing enzymes called hydrogenases	What enzymes are used to produce H2?
Water splitting, in which water is decomposed into its component protons, electrons, and oxygen, occurs in the light reactions in all photosynthetic organisms	What is the decomposition of water into its components called?
Hydrogen poses a number of hazards to human safety, from potential detonations and fires when mixed with air to being an asphyxiant in its pure, oxygen-free form	What threats can hydrogen cause to human saftey?
Many physical and chemical properties of hydrogen depend on the parahydrogen/orthohydrogen ratio 	What do physical and chemical properties of hydrogen depend on?
"The competition began on August 2, 1955, when the Soviet Union responded to the US announcement four days earlier of intent to launch artificial satellites for the International Geophysical Year, by declaring they would also launch a satellite ""in the near future"""	On what date did the Space Race begin?
The Space Race can trace its origins to Germany, beginning in the 1930s and continuing during World War II when Nazi Germany researched and built operational ballistic missiles	Which war in history did the Space Race begin to take root?
During the Second World War, General Dornberger was the military head of the army's rocket program, Zanssen became the commandant of the Peenemünde army rocket centre, and von Braun was the technical director of the ballistic missile program	During WWII, who was in charge of the German army's rocket program?
Each of the Allies captured a share of the available members of the German rocket team, but the United States benefited the most with Operation Paperclip, recruiting von Braun and most of his engineering team, who later helped develop the American missile and space exploration programs	What military operation allowed the US to recruit the German engineer, Von Braun?
The German rocket center in Peenemünde was located in the eastern part of Germany, which became the Soviet zone of occupation	The German rocket center was located in what city?
With their help, particularly Helmut Groettrup's group, Korolev reverse-engineered the A-4 and built his own version of the rocket, the R-1, in 1948	What year was the R1 rocket born?
He also started developing liquid-fueled rockets in 1921; yet he had not been taken seriously by the public, and was not sponsored by the government as part of the post-WW II rocket development effort	Liquid-fueled rockets were developed in what year?
Von Braun and his team were sent to the United States Army's White Sands Proving Ground, located in New Mexico, in 1945	The United States Army's White Sands Proving Ground is located where?
The United States faced a new uncertainty beginning in September 1949, when it lost its monopoly on the atomic bomb	What year did the US lose its monopoly to the atomic bomb?
Having suffered at least 27 million casualties during World War II after being invaded by Nazi Germany in 1941, the Soviet Union was wary of its former ally, the United States, which until late 1949 was the sole possessor of atomic weapons	How many casualties did the Soviet Union have during WWII?
In 1953, Korolev was given the go-ahead to develop the R-7 Semyorka rocket, which represented a major advance from the German design	Who began developing the R-7 Semyorka rocket?
The Air Force initiated ICBM research in 1945 with the MX-774	The US Air Force began research of ICBMs in what year?
On August 30, 1955, Korolev managed to get the Soviet Academy of Sciences to create a commission whose purpose was to beat the Americans into Earth orbit: this was the de facto start date for the Space Race	The starting date for the Space Race was which date?
On September 20, 1956, von Braun and his team did launch a Jupiter-C that was capable of putting a satellite into orbit, but the launch was used only as a suborbital test of nose cone reentry technology	A Jupiter-C was launched by Von Braum on what date?
The Soviet success caused public controversy in the United States, and Eisenhower ordered the civilian rocket and satellite project, Vanguard, to move up its timetable and launch its satellite much sooner than originally planned	The civilian rocket and satellite project in the US was called what?
On January 31, 1958, nearly four months after the launch of Sputnik 1, von Braun and the United States successfully launched its first satellite on a four-stage Juno I rocket derived from the US Army's Redstone missile, at Cape Canaveral	The first US satellite to launch without failure was on what date?
On April 2, 1958, President Eisenhower reacted to the Soviet space lead in launching the first satellite, by recommending to the US Congress that a civilian agency be established to direct nonmilitary space activities	The National Aeronautics and Space Act was established in what year?
On July 1, 1960, the Redstone Arsenal became NASA's George C	The Redstone Arsenal became the George C. Marshall Space Flight Center when?
In 1958, Korolev upgraded the R-7 to be able to launch a 400-kilogram payload to the Moon	How many attempts to the Moon did Luna E-1-class probes fail before successfully launching?
The US reacted to the Luna program by embarking on the Ranger program in 1959, managed by NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory	The Ranger program from 1959 was managed by what organization?
On April 12, 1961, the USSR surprised the world again by launching Yuri Gagarin into a single orbit around the Earth in a craft they called Vostok 1	Which country succesfully launched the first person into space in 1961?
"April 12 was declared Cosmonautics Day in the USSR, and is celebrated today in Russia as one of the official ""Commemorative Dates of Russia"	April 12, in the USSR, is what special day?
The US Air Force had been developing a program to launch the first man in space, named Man in Space Soonest	Man in Space Soonest was a program by which organization?
Three weeks later, on May 5, 1961, Alan Shepard became the first American in space, launched in a ballistic trajectory on Mercury-Redstone 3, in a spacecraft he named Freedom 7	The first American to travel into space was whom?
"Kennedy ultimately decided to pursue what became the Apollo program, and on May 25 took the opportunity to ask for Congressional support in a Cold War speech titled ""Special Message on Urgent National Needs"""	"The speech by Kennedy, ""Special Message on Urgent National Needs"" was delivered on what date?"
"He rallied popular support for the program in his ""We choose to go to the Moon"" speech, on September 12, 1962, before a large crowd at Rice University Stadium, in Houston, Texas, near the construction site of the new Manned Spacecraft Center facility"	"""We choose to go to the Moon"" speech was given at what location in Texas?"
Almost a year after the Soviet Union put a human into orbit, astronaut John Glenn became the first American to orbit the Earth, on February 20, 1962	The first American to orbit around the planet was whom?
The United States launched three more Mercury flights after Glenn's: Aurora 7 on May 24, 1962 duplicated Glenn's three orbits; Sigma 7 on October 3, 1962, six orbits; and Faith 7 on May 15, 1963, 22 orbits (32	How many more Mercury missions were there after John Glenn's?
Gherman Titov became the first Soviet cosmonaut to exercise manual control of his Vostok 2 craft on August 6, 1961	What first person from the USSR controlled their own spacecraft?
This time they launched the first woman , Valentina Tereshkova, into space on Vostok 6	The first woman that went into space was whom?
"The ""Vostok spaceship"" had been first displayed at the July 1961 Tushino air show, mounted on its launch vehicle's third stage, with the nose cone in place"	At what event was the Vostok spaceship first displayed to the public ?
On September 20, 1963, in a speech before the United Nations General Assembly, President Kennedy proposed that the United States and the Soviet Union join forces in their efforts to reach the Moon	When did US President John F. Kennedy, in a speech, propose to join forces to reach the moon with the USSR?
On October 2, 1997, it was reported that Khrushchev's son Sergei claimed Khrushchev was poised to accept Kennedy's proposal at the time of Kennedy's assassination on November 22, 1963	President Kennedy was killed when?
One week after Kennedy's death, he issued an executive order renaming the Cape Canaveral and Apollo launch facilities after Kennedy	What two locations in Florida were renamed after Kennedy by President Johnson?
Focused by the commitment to a Moon landing, in January 1962 the US announced Project Gemini, a two-man spacecraft that would support the later three-man Apollo by developing the key spaceflight technologies of space rendezvous and docking of two craft, flight durations of sufficient length to simulate going to the Moon and back, and extra-vehicular activity to accomplish useful work outside the spacecraft	What year was the Gemini project confirmed?
2	How many people could the Gemini project carry?
Gemini took a year longer than planned to accomplish its first flight, allowing the Soviets to achieve another first, launching Voskhod 1 on October 12, 1964, the first spacecraft with a three-cosmonaut crew	On what date was the first successful three man astronaut crew?
Voskhod 2 would end up being Korolev's final achievement before his death on January 14, 1966, as it would become the last of the many space firsts that demonstrated the USSR's domination in spacecraft technology during the early 1960s	Korolev died on what date?
On March 18, 1965, about a week before the first American piloted Project Gemini space flight, the USSR accelerated the competition, by launching the two-cosmonaut Voskhod 2 mission with Pavel Belyayev and Alexey Leonov	The Voskhod 2 carrying two humans was launched on what date?
In this way, Project Gemini built up spaceflight experience for the pool of astronauts who would be chosen to fly the Apollo lunar missions	Project Gemini helped recruit experienced people for which upcoming lunar missions?
The circumlunar program , created by Vladimir Chelomey's design bureau OKB-52, was to fly two cosmonauts in a stripped-down Soyuz 7K-L1, launched by Chelomey's Proton UR-500 rocket	Who created the circumlunar program called Zond?
Korolev's lunar landing program was designated N1/L3, for its N1 superbooster and a more advanced Soyuz 7K-L3 spacecraft, also known as the lunar orbital module , with a crew of two	"The ""Lunniy Korabl"" or ""LK"" would carry how many people?"
The US and USSR began discussions on the peaceful uses of space as early as 1958, presenting issues for debate to the United Nations, which created a Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space in 1959	The Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space was established in what year?
"On May 10, 1962, Vice President Johnson addressed the Second National Conference on the Peaceful Uses of Space revealing that the United States and the USSR both supported a resolution passed by the Political Committee of the UN General Assembly on December 1962, which not only urged member nations to ""extend the rules of international law to outer space,"" but to also cooperate in its exploration"	A problem was resolved by whom when both the US and the USSR supported a cooperative space program?
The UN ultimately created a Treaty on Principles Governing the Activities of States in the Exploration and Use of Outer Space, including the Moon and Other Celestial Bodies, which was signed by the United States, USSR, and the United Kingdom on January 27, 1967 and went into force the following October 10	The Treaty on Principles Governing the Activities of States in the Exploration and Use of Outer Space was signed by three countries on what date?
Both had been rushing at full-speed toward the first piloted flights of Apollo and Soyuz, without paying due diligence to growing design and manufacturing problems	Both crews were killed on which spacecraft missions in 1967?
"On January 27, 1967, the same day the US and USSR signed the Outer Space Treaty, the crew of the first manned Apollo mission, Command Pilot Virgil ""Gus"" Grissom, Senior Pilot Edward H"	The Outer Space Treaty was signed by the US and the USSR on what date?
""" On April 24, 1967, the single pilot of Soyuz 1, Vladimir Komarov, became the first in-flight spaceflight fatality"	Who was the person credited with the first in-flight space death?
Apollo 1's mission to check out the Apollo Command/Service Module in Earth orbit was accomplished by Grissom's backup crew commanded by Walter Schirra on Apollo 7, launched on October 11, 1968	Apollo 7 launched from Earth on what date?
The Soviet Union also fixed the parachute and control problems with Soyuz, and the next piloted mission Soyuz 3 was launched on October 26, 1968	The Soyuz 3 began its mission to space on what date?
After its successful flight around the Moon, Zond 4 encountered problems with its Earth reentry on March 9, and was ordered destroyed by an explosive charge 15,000 meters over the Gulf of Guinea	Where was the Zond 4 over when it was destroyed by an explosion?
During the summer of 1968, the Apollo program hit another snag: the first pilot-rated Lunar Module was not ready for orbital tests in time for a December 1968 launch	The first successful water landing in the Indian Ocean by the Soviets was was when?
On December 21, 1968, Frank Borman, James Lovell, and William Anders became the first humans to ride the Saturn V rocket into space on Apollo 8	Which three people were the first to ride the Saturn V rocket into space?
"The next mission, Apollo 10, conducted a ""dress rehearsal"" for the first landing in May 1969, flying the LM in lunar orbit as close as 47,400 feet (14"	How close to the ground was the Lunar Module in May 1969 during its landing test?
The launch pad explosion of the N-1 on July 3, 1969 was a significant setback	The Soviet, N1 Rocket exploded and was destroyed on what date?
Apollo 11 was prepared with the goal of a July landing in the Sea of Tranquility	Apollo 11 mission was to land where on the Moon?
The trip to the Moon took just over three days	How long did the trip to the Moon last for the crew of the Apollo 11?
The first step was witnessed by at least one-fifth of the population of Earth, or about 723 million people	How many people saw the first step onto the Moon?
Apollo 11 left lunar orbit and returned to Earth, landing safely in the Pacific Ocean on July 24, 1969	When did the Apollo 11 mission land back on Earth?
The first landing was followed by another, precision landing on Apollo 12 in November 1969	When was the second landing on the Moon successful?
Meanwhile, the USSR continued briefly trying to perfect their N1 rocket, finally canceling it in 1976, after two more launch failures in 1971 and 1972	Which year did the USSR cancel the N1 rocket program after two failures that didn't launch?
During 1969 and 1970, they launched six more Soyuz flights after Soyuz 3, then launched the first space station, the Salyut 1 laboratory designed by Kerim Kerimov, on April 19, 1971	The USSR launched their first space station on what date?
The station re-entered the Earth's atmosphere on October 11, after 175 days in orbit	The station, Salyut 1, came back to Earth on which date?
The United States launched the orbital workstation Skylab 1 on May 14, 1973	The Skylab 1 was launched on which date?
In May 1972, President Richard M	When did President Nixon and Brezhnev of the USSR end the Cold War?
The two nations planned a joint mission to dock the last US Apollo craft with a Soyuz, known as the Apollo-Soyuz Test Project 	ASTP stands for what?
The joint mission began when Soyuz 19 was first launched on July 15, 1975 at 12:20 UTC, and the Apollo craft was launched with the docking module six and a half hours later	Soyuz 19 took off from Earth on what date?
However, the USSR dissolved in 1991 and the remains of its space program were distributed to various Eastern European countries	What year did the USSR disband?
The Russian R-7 rocket family, which launched the first Sputnik at the beginning of the space race, is still in use today	Which Russian rocket carries passengers to and from the International Space Station?
The United States' National Defense Education Act of 1958 increased funding for these goals from childhood education through the post-graduate level	The United States' National Defense Education Act was established in what year?
A web browser is a software application for retrieving, presenting, and traversing information resources on the World Wide Web	What do people typically call a web browser?
Although browsers are primarily intended to use the World Wide Web, they can also be used to access information provided by web servers in private networks or files in file systems	The primary function of a browser is to use what?
The first web browser was invented in 1990 by Sir Tim Berners-Lee	When was the first browser created?
"In 1993, browser software was further innovated by Marc Andreessen with the release of Mosaic, ""the world's first popular browser"", which made the World Wide Web system easy to use and more accessible to the average person"	Who released Mosaic?
Microsoft responded with its Internet Explorer in 1995, also heavily influenced by Mosaic, initiating the industry's first browser war	Who released the Internet Explorer browser?
Opera debuted in 1996; it has never achieved widespread use, having less than 2% browser usage share as of February 2012 according to Net Applications	Opera was introduced in what year?
In 1998, Netscape launched what was to become the Mozilla Foundation in an attempt to produce a competitive browser using the open source software model	What did Netscape launch in 1998?
Apple's Safari had its first beta release in January 2003; as of April 2011, it had a dominant share of Apple-based web browsing, accounting for just over 7% of the entire browser market	When was the first beta release for Safari?
The most recent major entrant to the browser market is Chrome, first released in September 2008	Which browser is the newest to enter the field?
Internet Explorer, on the other hand, was bundled free with the Windows operating system , and therefore it was funded partly by the sales of Windows to computer manufacturers and direct to users	What was bundled for free with the Windows OS?
"In January 2009, the European Commission announced it would investigate the bundling of Internet Explorer with Windows operating systems from Microsoft, saying ""Microsoft's tying of Internet Explorer to the Windows operating system harms competition between web browsers, undermines product innovation and ultimately reduces consumer choice"	Who investigated the bundling of the IE browser with Windows OS?
Safari and Mobile Safari were likewise always included with OS X and iOS respectively, so, similarly, they were originally funded by sales of Apple computers and mobile devices, and formed part of the overall Apple experience to customers	What browser was automatically included with OS X?
For example, Google pays Mozilla, the maker of Firefox, to make Google Search the default search engine in Firefox	Which company pays Firefox to make their search engine the default on their browser?
The primary purpose of a web browser is to bring information resources to the user , allowing them to view the information , and then access other information 	What is the main use of a browser?
This process begins when the user inputs a Uniform Resource Locator , for example http://en	What does URL stand for?
") is passed to the browser's layout engine to be transformed from markup to an interactive document, a process known as ""rendering"""	What is it called when content is changed from markup to an interactive document?
Information resources may contain hyperlinks to other information resources	What can resources have to connect to other resources?
Available web browsers range in features from minimal, text-based user interfaces with bare-bones support for HTML to rich user interfaces supporting a wide variety of file formats and protocols	Features on a browser can range from minimal with little support to what?
"Major browsers also include pop-up blockers to prevent unwanted windows from ""popping up"" without the user's consent"	What does not allow windows to pop up without consent?
A browser extension is a computer program that extends the functionality of a web browser	A computer program that continues the functionality of a browser is called what?
Most web browsers can display a list of web pages that the user has bookmarked so that the user can quickly return to them	A list of websites a user can click to get back to easy have been what by the user?
Most browsers support HTTP Secure and offer quick and easy ways to delete the web cache, download history, form and search history, cookies, and browsing history	HTTP Secure is supported by what?
The rapid development of proprietary web browsers led to the development of non-standard dialects of HTML, leading to problems with interoperability	Quick development of what kind of browsers led to non-standard HTML dialects?
Web browsers consist of a user interface, layout engine, rendering engine, JavaScript interpreter, UI backend, networking component and data persistence component	A user interface, UI backend, layout engine and other things are part of what?
The BeiDou Navigation Satellite System is a Chinese satellite navigation system	What is the BeiDou Navigation Satellite System?
The first BeiDou system, officially called the BeiDou Satellite Navigation Experimental System and also known as BeiDou-1, consists of three satellites and offers limited coverage and applications	What was the first BeiDou system called?
The second generation of the system, officially called the BeiDou Navigation Satellite System and also known as COMPASS or BeiDou-2, will be a global satellite navigation system consisting of 35 satellites, and is under construction as of January 2015	What is the name of the second generation of BDS?
In-mid 2015, China started the build-up of the third generation BeiDou system in the global coverage constellation	When did China begin constructing the third BeiDou system?
Fifteen years after the satellite system was launched, it is now generating $31	How long ago was the BeiDou Satellite System first launched?
It is named after the Big Dipper constellation, which is known in Chinese as Běidǒu	What is the BeiDou Navigation Satellite System named after?
The original idea of a Chinese satellite navigation system was conceived by Chen Fangyun and his colleagues in the 1980s	Who first came up with the idea for a Chinese satellite navigation system?
The first satellite, BeiDou-1A, was launched on 30 October 2000, followed by BeiDou-1B on 20 December 2000	What was the name of the first satellite launched for the system?
On 2 November 2006, China announced that from 2008 BeiDou would offer an open service with an accuracy of 10 meters, timing of 0	When did China announce service plans for the BeiDou system?
In February 2007, the fourth and last satellite of the BeiDou-1 system, BeiDou-1D , was sent up into space	When was the fourth satellite for the BeiDou-1 system launched?
In April 2007, the first satellite of BeiDou-2, namely Compass-M1 was successfully put into its working orbit	When was the first satellite for the BeiDou-2 system launched?
In September 2003, China intended to join the European Galileo positioning system project and was to invest €230 million in Galileo over the next few years	How much was China going to invest in the European Galileo positioning system project?
BeiDou-1 is an experimental regional navigation system, which consists of four satellites 	What is the BeiDou-1?
Unlike the American GPS, Russian GLONASS, and European Galileo systems, which use medium Earth orbit satellites, BeiDou-1 uses satellites in geostationary orbit	What type of satellites does the American GPS system use?
The first satellite, BeiDou-1A, was launched on October 31, 2000	When was the first satellite for the BeiDou-1 system launched?
With the existing user terminals it appears that the calibrated accuracy is 20m 	What is the calibrated accuracy of the BeiDou system?
In 2008, a BeiDou-1 ground terminal cost around CN¥20,000RMB , almost 10 times the price of a contemporary GPS terminal	How much did a BeiDou-1 ground terminal cost in 2008?
"According to Sun Jiadong, the chief designer of the navigation system, ""Many organizations have been using our system for a while, and they like it very much"	Who is the chief designer of the BeiDou navigation system?
BeiDou-2 is not an extension to the older BeiDou-1, but rather supersedes it outright	What was the BeiDou-2 system previously known as?
The ranging signals are based on the CDMA principle and have complex structure typical of Galileo or modernized GPS	What are the ranging signals of the BeiDou system based on?
There are two levels of service provided — a free service to civilians and licensed service to the Chinese government and military	What types of services will be offered by the BeiDou system?
Frequencies for COMPASS are allocated in four bands: E1, E2, E5B, and E6 and overlap with Galileo	How many frequencies does the COMPASS system use?
Although little was officially announced by Chinese authorities about the signals of the new system, the launch of the first COMPASS satellite permitted independent researchers not only to study general characteristics of the signals, but even to build a COMPASS receiver	How much information about the COMPASS system did Chinese authorities release?
Compass-M1 is an experimental satellite launched for signal testing and validation and for the frequency filing on 14 April 2007	When was the Compass-M1 satellite launched?
Compass-M1 transmits in 3 bands: E2, E5B, and E6	What frequency bands does Compass-M1 transmit in?
3	In how many bands does Nerf-M1 transmit in?
The investigation of the transmitted signals started immediately after the launch of Compass -M1 on 14 April 2007	When did the investigation of the signals transmitted by Compass -M1 begin?
"Characteristics of the ""I"" signals on E2 and E5B are generally similar to the civilian codes of GPS , but Compass signals have somewhat greater power"	"What is the difference between the ""I"" signals on E2 and E5B and the civilian codes of GPS ?"
In December 2011, the system went into operation on a trial basis	When did the Compass system begin operation on a trial bases?
The BeiDou-2 system began offering services for the Asia-Pacific region in December 2012	When did the BeiDou-2 system start offering services?
"In December 2011, Xinhua stated that ""he basic structure of the Beidou system has now been established, and engineers are now conducting comprehensive system test and evaluation"	When did the Beidou system begin operating in China?
The first satellite of the second-generation system, Compass-M1 was launched in 2007	When was the Compass-M1 satellite launced?
In 2015, the system began its transition towards global coverage with the first launch of a new-generation of satellites, and the 17th one within the new system	When did the BeiDou system begin transitioning to global coverage?
On July 25, 2015, the 18th and 19th satellites were successfully launched from the Xichang Satellite Launch Center, marking the first time for China to launch two satellites at once on top of a Long March 3B/Expedition-1 carrier rocket	When were the 18th and 19th satellites for the BeiDou system launched?
The three latest satellites will jointly undergo testing of a new system of navigation signaling and inter-satellite links, and start providing navigation services when ready	What will the three latest satellites provide after testing?
Canon law is the body of laws and regulations made by ecclesiastical authority , for the government of a Christian organization or church and its members	What is the name for the rules issued by the heads of the Church?
"Greek kanon / Ancient Greek: κανών, Arabic Qanun / قانون, Hebrew kaneh / קנה, ""straight""; a rule, code, standard, or measure; the root meaning in all these languages is ""reed"" (cf"	What is the Greek term for canon?
The Apostolic Canons or Ecclesiastical Canons of the Same Holy Apostles is a collection of ancient ecclesiastical decrees concerning the government and discipline of the Early Christian Church, incorporated with the Apostolic Constitutions which are part of the Ante-Nicene Fathers In the fourth century the First Council of Nicaea calls canons the disciplinary measures of the Church: the term canon, κανὠν, means in Greek, a rule	How many ancient canons exist in the Eastern Church?
In the Catholic Church, canon law is the system of laws and legal principles made and enforced by the Church's hierarchical authorities to regulate its external organization and government and to order and direct the activities of Catholics toward the mission of the Church	Who enforces canon law in Catholicism?
The Roman Catholic Church canon law also includes the main five rites of churches which are in full union with the Roman Catholic Church and the Supreme Pontiff:	What is another name for the collections of other Catholic churches led by the Supreme Pontiff?
In the Roman Church, universal positive ecclesiastical laws, based upon either immutable divine and natural law, or changeable circumstantial and merely positive law, derive formal authority and promulgation from the office of pope, who as Supreme Pontiff possesses the totality of legislative, executive, and judicial power in his person	What are the permanent sources of positive ecclesiastical law?
The Catholic Church has what is claimed to be the oldest continuously functioning internal legal system in Western Europe, much later than Roman law but predating the evolution of modern European civil law traditions	What entity believes itself to have the longest standing internal mechanism of laws in Western Europe?
The history of Latin canon law can be divided into four periods: the jus antiquum, the jus novum, the jus novissimum and the Code of Canon Law	Which period followed the jus antiquum?
The canon law of the Eastern Catholic Churches, which had developed some different disciplines and practices, underwent its own process of codification, resulting in the Code of Canons of the Eastern Churches promulgated in 1990 by Pope John Paul II	In what ways did the Eastern Catholic Churches's legal systems vary from those of the west?
It is a fully developed legal system, with all the necessary elements: courts, lawyers, judges, a fully articulated legal code principles of legal interpretation, and coercive penalties, though it lacks civilly-binding force in most secular jurisdictions	What profesional roles from secular law does the Catholic Church also employ?
Much of the legislative style was adapted from the Roman Law Code of Justinian	What ancient law served as the precursor to the type of legislation seen in the Roman Catholics?
The institutions and practices of canon law paralleled the legal development of much of Europe, and consequently both modern civil law and common law bear the influences of canon law	What continent's laws developed alongside those of the Church?
Canonical jurisprudential theory generally follows the principles of Aristotelian-Thomistic legal philosophy	What school of thought serves as a model for canon theory?
The law of the Eastern Catholic Churches in full union with Rome was in much the same state as that of the Latin or Western Church before 1917; much more diversity in legislation existed in the various Eastern Catholic Churches	Prior to 1917, what church was in a similar situation as the Eastern Catholic Churches as regards its legal system?
The first Code of Canon Law, 1917, was mostly for the Roman Rite, with limited application to the Eastern Churches	When was the original Code of Canon Law published?
"The Greek-speaking Orthodox have collected canons and commentaries upon them in a work known as the Pēdálion , so named because it is meant to ""steer"" the Church"	What language is used by members of the Orthodox denomination?
In the Church of England, the ecclesiastical courts that formerly decided many matters such as disputes relating to marriage, divorce, wills, and defamation, still have jurisdiction of certain church-related matters (e	In what institution do church courts still have relevant functions in secular society?
Other churches in the Anglican Communion around the world (e	What is a term for the Church of England and churches that align with it?
Currently, , there are principles of canon law common to the churches within the Anglican Communion; their existence can be factually established; each province or church contributes through its own legal system to the principles of canon law common within the Communion; these principles have a strong persuasive authority and are fundamental to the self-understanding of each of the churches of the Communion; these principles have a living force, and contain in themselves the possibility of further development; and the existence of these principles both demonstrates unity and promotes unity within the Anglican Communion	As of 2004, what do all Anglican Communion Churches share?
"In Presbyterian and Reformed churches, canon law is known as ""practice and procedure"" or ""church order"", and includes the church's laws respecting its government, discipline, legal practice and worship"	What are two other possible terms for canon law among some denominations?
Roman canon law had been criticized by the Presbyterians as early as 1572 in the Admonition to Parliament	What group took issue with the Roman canons?
The Book of Concord is the historic doctrinal statement of the Lutheran Church, consisting of ten credal documents recognized as authoritative in Lutheranism since the 16th century	What is a fundamental collection of documents of the Lutherans?
The Federal government operates two official radio and television networks, which exist alongside a number of private and foreign stations	How many official radio and television networks does the government of Somalia operate?
Funded by Somali entrepreneurs and backed by expertise from China, Korea and Europe, these nascent telecommunications firms offer affordable mobile phone and internet services that are not available in many other parts of the continent	Who funded the new telecommunications firms in Somalia?
After forming partnerships with multinational corporations such as Sprint, ITT and Telenor, these firms now offer the cheapest and clearest phone calls in Africa	Sprint, ITT, and Telenor are examples of what?
In 2008, Dahabshiil Group acquired a majority stake in Somtel Network, a Hargeisa-based telecommunications firm specialising in high speed broadband, mobile internet, LTE services, mobile money transfer and mobile phone services	What year did Dahabhiil acquire the majority of Somtal network?
Investment in the telecom industry is held to be one of the clearest signs that Somalia's economy has continued to develop	Investing in what Industry is a sign that Somalia's economy is continuing to improve?
On March 22, 2012, the Somali Cabinet unanimously approved the National Communications Act, which paves the way for the establishment of a National Communications regulator in the broadcasting and telecommunications sectors	What year was the national Communications act enacted?
The Somali Postal Service is the national postal service of the Federal Government of Somalia	What is the name of the Somali postal service?
The national postal infrastructure was completely destroyed during the civil war	When was the infrastructure of the postal service destroyed?
The government's overall reconstruction plan for Somali Post is structured into three Phases spread out over a period of ten years	How many phases made up the reconstruction plan for the Somali Post?
On 1 November 2013, international postal services for Somalia officially resumed	What year did postal service in Somalia resume?
Established during the colonial period, Radio Mogadishu initially broadcast news items in both Somali and Italian	When was Radio Mogadishu established?
Other radio stations based in Mogadishu include Mustaqbal Media corporation and the Shabelle Media Network, the latter of which was in 2010 awarded the Media of the Year prize by the Paris-based journalism organisation, Reporters Without Borders 	Mustaqbal Media Corporation is based where?
The northeastern Puntland region has around six private radio stations, including Radio Garowe, Radio Daljir, Radio Codka-Nabbada and Radio Codka-Mudug	About how many private radio stations does the region of Puntland have?
The Mogadishu-based Somali National Television is the principal national public service broadcaster	What TV station is the main public service broadcaster in Somalia?
Additionally, Somalia has several private television networks, including Horn Cable Television and Universal TV	Horn Cable Television and Universal TV are examples of what?
Around 50 newspapers were published in Mogadishu alone during this period, including Qaran, Mogadishu Times, Sana'a, Shabelle Press, Ayaamaha, Mandeeq, Sky Sport, Goal, The Nation, Dalka, Panorama, Aayaha Nolosha, Codka Xuriyada and Xidigta Maanta	Where was The Mogadishu Times published?
According to the Centre for Law and Democracy and the African Union/United Nations Information Support Team , Somalia did not have systemic internet blocking or filtering as of December 2012	What is the IST?
Somalia established its first ISP in 1999, one of the last countries in Africa to get connected to the Internet	What years was the first ISP established in Somalia?
According to the Somali Economic Forum, the number of internet users in Somalia rose from only 200 in the year 2000 to 106,000 users in 2011, with the percentage continuing to rise	What was the numbe rof Somali internet users in the year 2000?
The Somali Telecommunication Association , a watchdog organization that oversees the policy development and regulatory framework of Somalia's ICT sector, reported in 2006 that there were over half a million users of internet services within the territory	What is the STA?
As of 2009, dial up, wireless and satellite services were available	As of what year were dial up, wireless , and satellite services available?
Broadband wireless services were offered by both dial up and non-dial up ISPs in major cities, such as Mogadishu, Bosaso, Hargeisa, Galkayo and Kismayo	Mogadishu and Bosaso are what in Somalia?
As of 2009, Internet via satellite had a steady growth rate of 10% to 15% per year	What wsas the satellite internet growth rate as of 2009?
In December 2012, Hormuud Telecom launched its Tri-Band 3G service for internet and mobile clients	Hormuud Telecom launched what service in 2012?
In November 2013, Somalia received its first fiber optic connection	What year did Somalia receive its first fiber optic connection?
Catalan or ) is a Romance language named for its origins in Catalonia, in what is northeastern Spain and adjoining parts of France	What place is Catalan named for?
According to the Statistical Institute of Catalonia in 2008 the Catalan language is the second most commonly used in Catalonia, after Spanish, as a native or self-defining language	What is the second most often spoken language is Catalonia?
Catalan evolved from Vulgar Latin around the eastern Pyrenees in the 9th century	From what language did Catalan come?
Since the Spanish transition to democracy , Catalan has been recognized as an official language, language of education, and language of mass media, all of which have contributed to its increased prestige	What happened in 1975-1982?
They are divided into two blocks, Eastern and Western, differing mostly in pronunciation	What is the division of Catalan dialects?
Catalan shares many traits with its neighboring Romance languages	What does Catalan have in common with other Romance languages in the same area?
Catalan has an inflectional grammar, with two genders , and two numbers 	How many genders does Catalan have?
The word Catalan derives from the territory of Catalonia, itself of disputed etymology	What is Catalan the derivitive of?
In English, the term referring to a person first appears in the mid 14th century as Catelaner, followed in the 15th century as Catellain 	When did the reference Catelaner first appear?
In the Valencian Community, the term valencià (/va	Where is Valencia used instead of Catalan?
By the 9th century, Catalan had evolved from Vulgar Latin on both sides of the eastern end of the Pyrenees, as well as the territories of the Roman province of Hispania Tarraconensis to the south	What language did Catalan descend from?
In the 11th century, documents written in macaronic Latin begin to show Catalan elements, with texts written almost completely in Romance appearing by 1080	When did macaronic Latin start showing signs of Catalan?
During the 11th and 12th centuries the Catalan rulers expanded up to north of the Ebro river, and in the 13th century they conquered the Land of Valencia and the Balearic Islands	When did Catalan rulers broaden their territory to north of the Ebro River?
In the Low Middle Ages, Catalan went through a golden age, reaching a peak of maturity and cultural richness	When was the golden age of Catalan?
Martorell's outstanding novel of chivalry Tirant lo Blanc shows a transition from Medieval to Renaissance values, something that can also be seen in Metge's work	Who wrote Tirant lo Blanc?
With the union of the crowns of Castille and Aragon , the use of Spanish gradually became more prestigious	When were Castille and Aragon united?
With the Treaty of the Pyrenees , Spain ceded the northern part of Catalonia to France, and soon thereafter the local Catalan varieties came under the influence of French, which in 1700 became the sole official language of the region	When was the Treaty of the Pyrenees?
Shortly after the French Revolution , the French First Republic prohibited official use of, and enacted discriminating policies against, the nonstandard languages of France , such as Catalan, Alsatian, Breton, Occitan, Flemish, and Basque	When did France outlaw Catalan?
Following the French capture of Algeria , that region saw several waves of Catalan-speaking settlers	When did the French obtain Algeria?
Nowadays, France only recognizes French as an official language	What is the official language of France?
The decline of Catalan continued in the 16th and 17th centuries	What declined in the 16th and 17th centuries?
In parallel, however, the 19th century saw a Catalan literary revival , which has continued up to the present day	What did the 19th century produce in Catalan literature?
Since the Spanish transition to democracy , Catalan has been institutionalizated as an official language, language of education, and language of mass media; all of which have contributed to its increased prestige	Since the transition what language has been proclaimed mandatory in schools?
In Andorra, Catalan has always been the sole official language	Where has Catalan always been the only language?
On the other hand, there are several language shift processes currently taking place	What kind of shifts are taking place in Catalan speaking areas?
In the Alicante province Catalan is being replaced by Spanish, and in Alghero by Italian	What is Catalan being supplanted by in Alicante?
The ascription of Catalan to the Occitano-Romance branch of Gallo-Romance languages is not shared by all linguists and philologists, particularly among Spanish ones, such as Ramón Menéndez Pidal	To what branch of Gallo-Romance languages is Catalan attributed?
Catalan bears varying degrees of similarity to the linguistic varieties subsumed under the cover term Occitan language 	What is Catalan a variety of?
Catalan shares many traits with the other neighboring Romance languages 	What does Catalan share with nearby Romance languages?
According to Ethnologue, the lexical similarity between Catalan and other Romance languages is: 87% with Italian; 85% with Portuguese; 80% with Spanish; 76% with Ladin; 75% with Sardinian; and 73% with Romanian	What is the similarity between Catalan and Italian?
During much of its history, and especially during the Francoist dictatorship , the Catalan language has often been degraded as a mere dialect of Spanish	What has Catalan often been considered?
2nd century, the vocabulary and phonology of Roman Tarraconensis was different from the rest of Roman Hispania	What area was Roman Tarraconensis language different from?
The Germanic superstrate has had different outcomes in Spanish and Catalan	What is the origin of language elements found in Catalan and not in Spanish?
However, the Arabic element in Spanish is generally much more prevalent	What element in Spanish is more prominent than in Catalan?
"Situated between two large linguistic blocks , Catalan has many unique lexical choices, such as enyorar ""to miss somebody"", apaivagar ""to calm down somebody"", or rebutjar ""reject"""	What are the linguistic blocks Catalan lies between?
These territories are sometimes referred to as the Països Catalans , a denomination based on cultural affinity and common heritage, that has also had a subsequent political interpretation but no official status	What are the Paisos Catalans
In contrast with other Romance languages, Catalan has many monosyllabic words; and those ending in a wide variety of consonants and some consonant clusters	How is Catalan different from other Romance languages?
Central Catalan is considered the standard pronunciation of the language	What is the standard pronunciation of Catalan?
Catalan has inherited the typical vowel system of Vulgar Latin, with seven stressed phonemes: /a ɛ e i ɔ o u/, a common feature in Western Romance, except Spanish	Where does Catalan get its vowel system?
In Central Catalan, unstressed vowels reduce to three: /a e ɛ/ > ; /o ɔ u/ > ; /i/ remains distinct	How many reduced unstressed are vowels are there in Central Catalan?
Catalan sociolinguistics studies the situation of Catalan in the world and the different varieties that this language presents	What field studies the placement of Catalan in the world?
The dialects of the Catalan language feature a relative uniformity, especially when compared to other Romance languages; both in terms of vocabulary, semantics, syntax, morphology, and phonology	What do the dialects of Catalan feature?
The main difference lies in the treatment of unstressed a and e; which have merged to /ə/ in Eastern dialects, but which remain distinct as /a/ and /e/ in Western dialects	What is the major difference between the two blocks?
Western Catalan comprises the two dialects of Northwestern Catalan and Valencian; the Eastern block comprises four dialects: Central Catalan, Balearic, Rossellonese, and Alguerese	What two dialects does Western Catalan include?
Central Catalan is considered the standard pronunciation of the language and has the highest number of speakers	What comprises the standard pronunciation of Catalan?
Catalan has inherited the typical vowel system of Vulgar Latin, with seven stressed phonemes: /a ɛ e i ɔ o u/, a common feature in Western Romance, except Spanish	What is the vowel system of Catalan?
In Eastern Catalan , unstressed vowels reduce to three: /a e ɛ/ > ; /o ɔ u/ > ; /i/ remains distinct	Where do unstressed vowels reduce to three?
In Majorcan, unstressed vowels reduce to four: /a e ɛ/ follow the Eastern Catalan reduction pattern; however /o ɔ/ reduce to , with /u/ remaining distinct, as in Western Catalan	In what language do unstressed vowels reduce to four?
In Western Catalan, unstressed vowels reduce to five: /e ɛ/ > ; /o ɔ/ > ; /a u i/ remain distinct	What do unstressed vowels reduce to in Western Catalan?
Central, Western, and Balearic differ in the lexical incidence of stressed /e/ and /ɛ/	What form has the same /e/ as Central and Western?
parle, tem, sent ; parlo, temo, sento 	What language is parle or tem ?
In nouns and adjectives, maintenance of /n/ of medieval plurals in proparoxytone words	Where do you find medieval plurals?
Despite its relative lexical unity, the two dialectal blocks of Catalan show some differences in word choices	What do the two blocks of Catalan display differences in?
Standard Catalan, virtually accepted by all speakers, is mostly based on Eastern Catalan, which is the most widely used dialect	What is Standard based on?
Other divergences include the use of ⟨tl⟩ in some words instead of ⟨tll⟩ like in ametla/ametlla , espatla/espatlla , the use of elided demonstratives in the same level as reinforced ones or the use of many verbal forms common in Valencian, and some of these common in the rest of Western Catalan too, like subjunctive mood or inchoative conjugation in -ix- at the same level as -eix- or the priority use of -e morpheme in 1st person singular in present indicative : jo compre instead of jo compro 	What is jo compro changed to ?
In the Balearic Islands, IEC's standard is used but adapted for the Balearic dialect by the University of the Balearic Islands's philological section	Where is IEC's standard used?
In Alghero, the IEC has adapted its standard to the Alguerese dialect	Where has the IEC adapted its standard to the Alguerese dialect?
In 2011, the Aragonese government passed a decree for the establishment of a new language regulator of Catalan in La Franja 	Where is the Catalan speaking part of Aragon?
Valencian is classified as a Western dialect, along with the northwestern varieties spoken in Western Catalonia 	How is Valencian classified?
Linguists, including Valencian scholars, deal with Catalan and Valencian as the same language	How do linguists view Catalan and Valencian?
The AVL, created by the Valencian parliament, is in charge of dictating the official rules governing the use of Valencian, and its standard is based on the Norms of Castelló 	Who established the AVL?
Despite the position of the official organizations, an opinion poll carried out between 2001 and 2004 showed that the majority of the Valencian people consider Valencian different from Catalan	What do most Valencian people think Valencian is in regards to Catalan?
This clash of opinions has sparked much controversy	What has produced a great deal of controversy?
Any lexical divergence within any of the two groups can be explained as an archaism	As what can divergence in the groups be shown?
Literary Catalan allows the use of words from different dialects, except those of very restricted use	What can use words from different dialects?
Like other languages, Catalan has a large list of learned words from Greek and Latin	Where does Catalan get a lot of its learned words?
The process of morphological derivation in Catalan follows the same principles as the other Romance languages, where agglutination is common	What is common in Romance languages?
In gender inflection, the most notable feature is , the loss of the typical masculine suffix -o	What is the usual masculine suffix?
Catalan has few suppletive couplets, like Italian and Spanish, and unlike French	What kind of words does Catalan have few of?
There is a tendency to abandon traditionally gender-invariable adjectives in favour of marked ones, something prevalent in Occitan and French	What languages have a tendency to lose gender-invariable adjectives?
As in the other Western Romance languages, the main plural expression is the suffix -s, which may create morphological alternations similar to the ones found in gender inflection, albeit more rarely	What is the usual way to make a plural?
The inflection of determinatives is complex, specially because of the high number of elisions, but is similar to the neighboring languages	What does the large number of omissions make the determinatives?
Central Catalan has abandoned almost completely unstressed possessives (mon, etc	What has Central Catalan mostly abandoned?
The morphology of Catalan personal pronouns is complex, specially in unstressed forms, which are numerous 	How many forms of personal pronouns are there in Catalan?
Catalan pronouns exhibit T–V distinction, like all other Romance languages 	What is this distinction similar to?
This flexibility allows Catalan to use extraposition extensively, much more than French or Spanish	What languages use extrapositioning in sentences less than Catalan? 
Like all the Romance languages, Catalan verbal inflection is more complex than the nominal	What is Catalan verbal inflection ?
The Catalan verbal system is basically common to all Western Romance, except that most dialects have replaced the synthetic indicative perfect with a periphrastic form of anar + infinitive	What system is common to Western Romance?
Catalan verbs are traditionally divided into three conjugations, with vowel themes -a-, -e-, -i-, the last two being split into two subtypes	How are Catalan verbs grouped?
In Spain, every person officially has two surnames, one of which is the father's first surname and the other is the mother's first surname	How many surnames does everyone in Spain have?
Boston is the capital and largest city of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts in the United States	Which of the United States is Boston located in?
One of the oldest cities in the United States, Boston was founded on the Shawmut Peninsula in 1630 by Puritan settlers from England	What year was Boston founded?
Households in the city claim the highest average rate of philanthropy in the United States; businesses and institutions rank amongst the top in the country for environmental sustainability and investment	Households in Boston claim the highest average rate of what in the United States?
Boston's early European settlers had first called the area Trimountaine but later renamed it Boston after Boston, Lincolnshire, England, the origin of several prominent colonists	What did Boston's early settlers call the area?
In 1629, the Massachusetts Bay Colony's first governor, John Winthrop, led the signing of the Cambridge Agreement, a key founding document of the city	What year was the Cambridge Agreement signed?
Many of the crucial events of the American Revolution—the Boston Massacre, the Boston Tea Party, Paul Revere's midnight ride, the battles of Lexington and Concord and Bunker Hill, the Siege of Boston, and many others—occurred in or near Boston	Boston became one of the wealthiest international ports after what war?
The Embargo Act of 1807, adopted during the Napoleonic Wars, and the War of 1812 significantly curtailed Boston's harbor activity	What act was put in place during the Napoleonic wars and the war of 1812?
During this period Boston flourished culturally as well, admired for its rarefied literary life and generous artistic patronage, with members of old Boston families—eventually dubbed Boston Brahmins—coming to be regarded as the nation's social and cultural elites	What was the name given to old Boston families?
Boston was an early port of the Atlantic triangular slave trade in the New England colonies, but was soon overtaken by Salem, Massachusetts and Newport, Rhode Island	Boston was overtaken by Salem, Massachusetts in what type of trade? 
"In 1822, the citizens of Boston voted to change the official name from ""the Town of Boston"" to ""the City of Boston"", and on March 4, 1822, the people of Boston accepted the charter incorporating the City"	What was the City of Boston's name before it was the City of Boston?
In the 1820s, Boston's population grew rapidly, and the city's ethnic composition changed dramatically with the first wave of European immigrants	How did Boston's population change in the 1820's?
The largest reclamation efforts took place during the 19th century; beginning in 1807, the crown of Beacon Hill was used to fill in a 50-acre mill pond that later became the Haymarket Square area	What was used to fill a mill pond that became the Haymarket Square?
By the early and mid-20th century, the city was in decline as factories became old and obsolete, and businesses moved out of the region for cheaper labor elsewhere	During what century did businesses move out of Boston to find cheaper labor?
In 1965, the first Community Health Center in the United States opened, the Columbia Point Health Center, in the Dorchester neighborhood	What year did the first community health center in the US open?
Boston is an intellectual, technological, and political center but has lost some important regional institutions, including the acquisition of The Boston Globe by The New York Times, and the loss to mergers and acquisitions of local financial institutions such as FleetBoston Financial, which was acquired by Charlotte-based Bank of America in 2004	The New York Times bought what famous Boston newspaper?
On April 15, 2013, two Chechen Islamist brothers exploded two bombs near the finish line of the Boston Marathon, killing three people and injuring roughly 264	On what date did bombs go off at the Boston marathon?
The city's official elevation, as measured at Logan International Airport, is 19 ft (5	How many feet above sea level is the City of Boston?
"Boston is surrounded by the ""Greater Boston"" region and is contiguously bordered by the cities and towns of Winthrop, Revere, Chelsea, Everett, Somerville, Cambridge, Newton, Brookline, Needham, Dedham, Canton, Milton, and Quincy"	What is the name of the region that surrounds Boston?
"Boston is sometimes called a ""city of neighborhoods"" because of the profusion of diverse subsections; the city government's Office of Neighborhood Services has officially designated 23 neighborhoods"	What s Boston sometimes called?
More than two-thirds of inner Boston's modern land area did not exist when the city was founded, but was created via the gradual filling in of the surrounding tidal areas over the centuries, notably with earth from the leveling or lowering of Boston's three original hills , and with gravel brought by train from Needham to fill the Back Bay	How much of Inner Bostons land area did not exist when the city was founded?
Boston has a continental climate with some maritime influence, and using the −3 °C coldest month isotherm, the city lies within the transition zone from a humid subtropical climate to a humid continental climate , although the suburbs north and west of the city are significantly colder in winter and solidly fall under the latter categorization; the city lies at the transition between USDA plant hardiness zones 6b and 7a 	Most of the city lies in which USDA plant hardiness zone?
Boston's coastal location on the North Atlantic moderates its temperature, but makes the city very prone to Nor'easter weather systems that can produce much snow and rain	On what coast is Boston located?
Fog is fairly common, particularly in spring and early summer, and the occasional tropical storm or hurricane can threaten the region, especially in late summer and early autumn	During what seasons is fog common in Boston?
In 2010, Boston was estimated to have 617,594 residents living in 272,481 housing units— a 5% population increase over 2000	About what was the population of Boston in 2010?
The median household income in Boston was $51,739, while the median income for a family was $61,035	What is the average household income in Boston?
From the 1950s to the end of the 20th century, the proportion of non-Hispanic whites in the city declined; in 2000, non-Hispanic whites made up 49	What year did minorities become the majority of the population for the first time?
People of Irish descent form the largest single ethnic group in the city, making up 15	What people form the largest ethnic group in the city?
The city has a sizable Jewish population with an estimated 25,000 Jews within the city and 227,000 within the Boston metro area; the number of congregations in Boston is estimated at 22	How many Jewish people live in the City of Boston?
The city, especially the East Boston neighborhood, has a significant Hispanic community	What neighborhoos has a high rate of hispanics?
According to a 2014 study by the Pew Research Center, 57% of the population of the city identified themselves as Christians, with 25% professing attendance at a variety of churches that could be considered Protestant, and 29% professing Roman Catholic beliefs	In 2014, what percentage of the city identified as Christian?
As of 2010 the Catholic Church had the highest number of adherents as a single denomination in the Boston-Cambridge-Newton Metro area, with more than two million members and 339 churches, followed by the Episcopal Church with 58,000 adherents in 160 churches	How many member attended the Catholic Church in the Boston area in 2010?
A global city, Boston is placed among the top 30 most economically powerful cities in the world	What rank does Boston hold as far as being an economically powerful city in the world?
Boston attracts more than 350,000 college students from around the world, who contribute more than $4	How many college students does Boston attract?
The city is considered highly innovative for a variety of reasons, including the presence of academia, access to venture capital, and the presence of many high-tech companies	The city is innovative becaus eit has access to what type of capital?
Tourism also composes a large part of Boston's economy, with 21	A large part of Boston's economy is made up of what?
Other important industries are financial services, especially mutual funds and insurance	Mutual funds and insurance are what type of industry?
The Boston Public Schools enrolls 57,000 students attending 145 schools, including the renowned Boston Latin Academy, John D	How many students are in Boston Public schools?
Its largest private universities include Boston University with its main campus along Commonwealth Avenue and a medical campus in the South End; Northeastern University in the Fenway area; Suffolk University near Beacon Hill, which includes law school and business school; and Boston College, which straddles the Boston –Newton border	How many member of the Association of American Universities are in Boston?
Smaller private schools include Babson College, Bentley University, Boston Architectural College, Emmanuel College, Fisher College, MGH Institute of Health Professions, Massachusetts College of Pharmacy and Health Sciences, Simmons College, Wellesley College, Wheelock College, Wentworth Institute of Technology, New England School of Law , and Emerson College	Babson College is what type of institution?
Metropolitan Boston is home to several conservatories and art schools, including Lesley University College of Art and Design, Massachusetts College of Art, the School of the Museum of Fine Arts, New England Institute of Art, New England School of Art and Design , Longy School of Music of Bard College, and the New England Conservatory 	Wher e is Lesley University College of Art and Desighn located?
Harvard University, the nation's oldest institute of higher education, is centered across the Charles River in Cambridge but has the majority of its land holdings and a substantial amount of its educational activities in Boston	What Univesity located outside of Boston still holds a large presence in the city?
Like many major American cities, Boston has seen a great reduction in violent crime since the early 1990s	Since the early 1990's, Boston has had less of what type of crime?
In 2008, there were 62 reported homicides	How many reported murders were there in 2008?
Boston shares many cultural roots with greater New England, including a dialect of the non-rhotic Eastern New England accent known as Boston English, and a regional cuisine with a large emphasis on seafood, salt, and dairy products	Boston is culturally similar to what area?
"Boston has been called the ""Athens of America"" for its literary culture, earning a reputation as ""the intellectual capital of the United States"	Known for its literary culture, Boston has also been called what?
"The Boston Symphony Orchestra is one of the ""Big Five,"" a group of the greatest American orchestras, and the classical music magazine Gramophone called it one of the ""world's best"" orchestras"	The Boston Symphony Orchestra is a member of what?
There are several major annual events such as First Night, which occurs on New Year's Eve, the Boston Early Music Festival, the annual Boston Arts Festival at Christopher Columbus Waterfront Park, and Italian summer feasts in the North End honoring Catholic saints	What event occurs on New Year's Eve?
Because of the city's prominent role in the American Revolution, several historic sites relating to that period are preserved as part of the Boston National Historical Park	What is preserved in the Boston national Historical Park?
Boston has been a noted religious center from its earliest days	How long has Boston been a religious center?
Air quality in Boston is generally very good: during the ten-year period 2004–2013, there were only 4 days in which the air was unhealthy for the general public, according to the EPA	How is the air quality in Boston?
Some of the cleaner energy facilities in Boston include the Allston green district, with three ecologically compatible housing facilities	Allston Green District is an example of what?
Another initiative, presented by the late Mayor Thomas Menino, is the Renew Boston Whole Building Incentive, which reduces the cost of living in buildings that are deemed energy efficient	Whos is the late Mayor of Boston?
Many older buildings in certain areas of Boston are supported by wooden piles driven into the area's fill; these piles remain sound if submerged in water, but are subject to dry rot if exposed to air for long periods	Lots of older buildings are supported by what?
Boston has teams in the four major North American professional sports leagues plus Major League Soccer, and has won 36 championships in these leagues, As of 2014	How many major North American sports leagues are there?
The Boston Red Sox, a founding member of the American League of Major League Baseball in 1901, play their home games at Fenway Park, near Kenmore Square in the city's Fenway section	Who plays their games at Fenway park?
The TD Garden, formerly called the FleetCenter and built to replace the old, since-demolished Boston Garden, is adjoined to North Station and is the home of two major league teams: the Boston Bruins of the National Hockey League and the Boston Celtics of the National Basketball Association	What is the TD Gardens former name?
While they have played in suburban Foxborough since 1971, the New England Patriots of the National Football League were founded in 1960 as the Boston Patriots, changing their name after relocating	What league do the new England patriots belong to?
Of the four, only Boston College participates in college football at the highest level, the Football Bowl Subdivision	How many NCAA Division I members play in Boston?
One of the best known sporting events in the city is the Boston Marathon, the 26	What is one of the most famous sporting events in the city?
Boston Common, located near the Financial District and Beacon Hill, is the oldest public park in the United States	What is the oldest public park in the US?
In its 2013 ParkScore ranking, The Trust for Public Land reported that Boston was tied with Sacramento and San Francisco for having the third-best park system among the 50 most populous US cities	What ranking does the Boston park system have?
Boston has a strong mayor – council government system in which the mayor has extensive executive power	How often are elections for mayor held in Boston?
In addition to city government, numerous commissions and state authorities—including the Massachusetts Department of Conservation and Recreation, the Boston Public Health Commission, the Massachusetts Water Resources Authority , and the Massachusetts Port Authority —play a role in the life of Bostonians	What is the capital of Massachusetts?
The city has several federal facilities, including the John F	Where is the John F kennedy Federal office building located?
Federally, Boston is split between two congressional districts	Boston is split between how many congressional districts?
The Boston Globe and the Boston Herald are two of the city's major daily newspapers	The Boston Globe and the Boston herals are two of Bostons what?
Siglo21, with its main offices in nearby Lawrence, is also widely distributed	Where is the main office of Siglo21?
Various LGBT publications serve the city's large LGBT community such as The Rainbow Times, the only minority and lesbian-owned LGBT newsmagazine	What is the name of the citys only lesbian owned LGBT magazine?
Boston is the largest broadcasting market in New England, with the radio market being the 11th largest in the United States	What is the national ranking of Bostons radio market?
The Boston television DMA, which also includes Manchester, New Hampshire, is the 8th largest in the United States	What ranking does the Boston television DMA hold?
The Longwood Medical and Academic Area, adjacent to the Fenway district, is home to a large number of medical and research facilities, including Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Children's Hospital Boston, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Harvard Medical School, Joslin Diabetes Center, and the Massachusetts College of Pharmacy and Health Sciences	What is the Longwood medical and Academic Area located next to?
Many of Boston's medical facilities are associated with universities	A lot of Bostond medical facilities are associated with what?
Logan Airport, located in East Boston and operated by the Massachusetts Port Authority , is Boston's principal airport	What Airport is located in East Boston?
Downtown Boston's streets grew organically, so they do not form a planned grid, unlike those in later-developed Back Bay, East Boston, the South End, and South Boston	How did the streets of downtown Boston grow?
With nearly a third of Bostonians using public transit for their commute to work, Boston has the fifth-highest rate of public transit usage in the country	How many people in Boston use public transportation?
Amtrak's Northeast Corridor and Chicago lines originate at South Station, which serves as a major intermodal transportation hub, and stop at Back Bay	Where do Amtrack's Northeast corridor and Chicago lines start?
"Nicknamed ""The Walking City"", Boston hosts more pedestrian commuters than do other comparably populated cities"	What is Bostons nickname?
Between 1999 and 2006, Bicycling magazine named Boston three times as one of the worst cities in the US for cycling; regardless, it has one of the highest rates of bicycle commuting	Bicycling magazine named Boston one of the worst cities in the US for what?
" is an American film studio, owned by Comcast through its wholly owned subsidiary NBCUniversal, and is one of Hollywood's ""Big Six"" film studios"	What is another name for Universal Studios Inc.?
It is the world's fourth oldest major film studio, after the renowned French studios Gaumont Film Company and Pathé, and the Danish Nordisk Film company	What is the nationality of Pathé?
Within weeks of his Chicago trip, Laemmle gave up dry goods to buy the first several nickelodeons	After a trip to what city did Carl Laemmle leave the dry goods business?
In June 1909, Laemmle started the Yankee Film Company with partners Abe Stern and Julius Stern	What company did Laemmle found in June 1909?
The Universal Film Manufacturing Company was incorporated in New York on April 30, 1912	On what date was the incorporation of the Universal Film Manufacturing Company?
On March 15, 1915,:8 Laemmle opened the world's largest motion picture production facility, Universal City Studios, on a 230-acre (0	On what date did Universal City Studios open?
In its early years Universal released three brands of feature films — Red Feather, low-budget programmers; Bluebird, more ambitious productions; and Jewel, their prestige motion pictures	What sort of films were produced by Red Feather?
This policy nearly bankrupted the studio when actor-director Erich von Stroheim insisted on excessively lavish production values for his films Blind Husbands and Foolish Wives , but Universal shrewdly gained a return on some of the expenditure by launching a sensational ad campaign that attracted moviegoers	Who directed Blind Husbands?
In 1926, Universal opened a production unit in Germany, Deutsche Universal-Film AG, under the direction of Joe Pasternak	What was the name of Universal's German production unit?
"In the early years, Universal had a ""clean picture"" policy"	what was the policy that Universal followed in its early years?
"Universal owned the rights to the ""Oswald the Lucky Rabbit"" character, although Walt Disney and Ub Iwerks had created Oswald, and their films had enjoyed a successful theatrical run"	Along with Walt Disney, who created Oswald the Lucky Rabbit?
In 2006, after almost 80 years, NBC Universal sold all Walt Disney-produced Oswald cartoons, along with the rights to the character himself, back to Disney	Who bought the Oswald the Lucky Rabbit cartoons in 2006?
Universal already had a reputation for nepotism—at one time, 70 of Carl, Sr	How many of Carl Laemmle, Sr.'s relatives were working for Universal as of 1928?
"""Junior"" Laemmle persuaded his father to bring Universal up to date"	What was Carl Laemmle Jr.'s nickname?
Among them are Frankenstein , Dracula , The Mummy and The Invisible Man 	In what year did Universal make a film version of Dracula?
The theater chain was scrapped, but Carl, Jr	What part of Universal's business was terminated while it was in bankruptcy?
The end for the Laemmles came with a lavish version of Show Boat , a remake of its earlier 1929 part-talkie production, and produced as a high-quality, big-budget film rather than as a B-picture	In what year was Universal's ill-fated film version of Show Boat released?
Gone were the big ambitions, and though Universal had a few big names under contract, those it had been cultivating, like William Wyler and Margaret Sullavan, left	What notable female star left Universal after the Standard Capital takeover?
Meanwhile, producer Joe Pasternak, who had been successfully producing light musicals with young sopranos for Universal's German subsidiary, repeated his formula in America	Who produced the film Three Smart Girls?
When Pasternak stopped producing Durbin's pictures, and she outgrew her screen persona and pursued more dramatic roles, the studio signed 13-year-old Gloria Jean for her own series of Pasternak musicals from 1939; she went on to star with Bing Crosby, W	How old was Gloria Jean in 1939?
The studio fostered many series: The Dead End Kids and Little Tough Guys action features and serials ; the comic adventures of infant Baby Sandy ; comedies with Hugh Herbert and The Ritz Brothers ; musicals with Robert Paige, Jane Frazee, The Andrews Sisters, and The Merry Macs ; and westerns with Tom Mix , Buck Jones , Bob Baker , Johnny Mack Brown ; Rod Cameron , and Kirby Grant 	During what period were the Little Tough Guys films produced?
Fields, and the comedy team of Abbott and Costello 	What two performers were known as the team Abbott and Costello?
During the war years Universal did have a co-production arrangement with producer Walter Wanger and his partner, director Fritz Lang, lending the studio some amount of prestige productions	Who was the directorial partner of Walter Wanger?
The studio did not make use of the three-strip Technicolor process until Arabian Nights , starring Jon Hall and Maria Montez	What was the first Universal film to use the three-strip Technicolor process?
In 1945, the British entrepreneur J	In what year was United World Pictures founded?
Universal-International became responsible for the American distribution of Rank's British productions, including such classics as David Lean's Great Expectations and Laurence Olivier's Hamlet 	In what year was the Olivier version of Hamlet made?
While there were to be a few hits like The Killers and The Naked City , Universal-International's new theatrical films often met with disappointing response at the box office	In what year was The Killers produced?
In the 1950s, Universal-International resumed their series of Arabian Nights films, many starring Tony Curtis	Who did many of Universal-International's Arabian Nights films feature?
Leading actors were increasingly free to work where and when they chose, and in 1950 MCA agent Lew Wasserman made a deal with Universal for his client James Stewart that would change the rules of the business	Who was a notable talent agent circa 1950?
The Music Corporation of America , then predominately a talent agency, had also become a powerful television producer, renting space at Republic Studios for its Revue Productions subsidiary	What acronym was the Music Corporation of America known by?
happened in mid-1962 as part of the MCA-Decca Records merger	In what year did MCA take over Universal?
Wallis, who had latterly worked as a major producer at Paramount, moved over to Universal, where he produced several films, among them a lavish version of Maxwell Anderson's Anne of the Thousand Days , and the equally lavish Mary, Queen of Scots 	Who wrote the original work that the film version of Anne of the Thousand Days was based on?
In the early 1970s, Universal teamed up with Paramount Pictures to form Cinema International Corporation, which distributed films by Paramount and Universal worldwide	Who partnered with Universal in the creation of Cinema International Corporation?
Anxious to expand the company's broadcast and cable presence, longtime MCA head Lew Wasserman sought a rich partner	Who was the head of MCA in 1990?
Matsushita provided a cash infusion, but the clash of cultures was too great to overcome, and five years later Matsushita sold an 80% stake in MCA/Universal to Canadian drinks distributor Seagram for $5	What percentage of MCA/Universal did Matsushita Electric sell five years after acquiring the company?
sold Universal's television holdings, including cable network USA, to Barry Diller 	Who bought the USA cable network from Seagram?
Burdened with debt, in 2004 Vivendi Universal sold 80% of Vivendi Universal Entertainment to General Electric, parent of NBC	Who bought 80% of Vivendi Universal Entertainment in 2004?
In late 2005, Viacom's Paramount Pictures acquired DreamWorks SKG after acquisition talks between GE and DreamWorks stalled	In what year did Paramount Pictures purchase DreamWorks?
Universal's multi-year film financing deal with Elliott Management expired in 2013	Universal's deal with what company ended in 2013?
In May 2015, Gramercy Pictures was revived by Focus Features as a genre label, that concentrated on action, sci-fi, and horror films	What film studio was brought back in May 2015?
As of 2015, Universal is the only studio to have released three billion-dollar films in one year; this distinction was achieved in 2015 with Furious 7, Jurassic World and Minions	In what year did Universal release three billion-dollar films?
, although sometimes credited by the name of the distribution company, Universal Pictures France	What was the name of Universal's French distribution company?
Estonian ) is the official language of Estonia, spoken natively by about 1	What country has Estonian as its official language?
"One distinctive feature that has caused a great amount of interest among linguists is what is traditionally seen as three degrees of phonemic length: short, long, and ""overlong"", such that /sɑdɑ/, /sɑˑdɑ/ and /sɑːdɑ/ are distinct"	Who is interested in the degrees of phonemic length?
Estonian belongs to the Finnic branch of the Uralic languages, along with Finnish, Karelian, and other nearby languages	What Uralic language branch contains Estonian?
Estonian has been influenced by Swedish, German , and Russian, though it is not related to them genetically	Who spoke German in what came to be known as Estonia?
Like Finnish and Hungarian, Estonian is a somewhat agglutinative language, but unlike them, it has lost vowel harmony, the front vowels occurring exclusively on the first or stressed syllable, although in older texts the vowel harmony can still be recognized	What kind of harmony has Estonian lost?
The two different historical Estonian languages , the North and South Estonian languages, are based on the ancestors of modern Estonians' migration into the territory of Estonia in at least two different waves, both groups speaking considerably different Finnic vernaculars	What was the minimum number of waves through which modern Estonians migrated into Estonia?
The domination of Estonia after the Northern Crusades, from the 13th century to 1918 by Denmark, Germany, Sweden, and Russia delayed indigenous literacy in Estonia	When did the Northern Crusades happen?
The oldest written records of the Finnic languages of Estonia date from the 13th century	How far back do the first written records of Estonia's Finnic languages go?
The book was a Lutheran manuscript, which never reached the reader and was destroyed immediately after publication	What was the first Estonian language book to be published?
Koell dating to 1535, during the Protestant Reformation period	In what year was S. Wanradt and J. Koell's book written?
The birth of native Estonian literature was in 1810 to 1820 when the patriotic and philosophical poems by Kristjan Jaak Peterson were published	Which Estonian poet's works were printed from 1810 to 1820?
From 1525 to 1917 14,503 titles were published in Estonian, as opposed to the 23,868 titles which were published between 1918 and 1940	In the years between 1918 and 1940 how many Estonian language books were printed?
Writings in Estonian became significant only in the 19th century with the spread of the ideas of the Age of Enlightenment, during the Estophile Enlightenment Period 	What Age's ideas allowed Estonian writings to gain significance?
After the Estonian War of Independence in 1919, the Estonian language became the state language of the newly independent country	What year did Estonia's War of Independence take place?
When Estonia was invaded and occupied by the Soviet Union in World War II, the status of the Estonian language changed to the first of two official languages 	What happened to Estonia during WWII?
The collapse of the Soviet Union led to the restoration of Republic of Estonia's independence	What historical event once again freed Estonia?
The return of Soviet immigrants to their countries of origin has brought the proportion of Estonians in Estonia back above 70%	Following the departure of the Soviet immigrants what was the percentage of Estonians in Estonia?
The Estonian dialects are divided into two groups – the northern and southern dialects, historically associated with the cities of Tallinn in the north and Tartu in the south, in addition to a distinct kirderanniku dialect, that of the northeastern coast of Estonia	How many groups of Estonian dialects are there?
The northern group consists of the keskmurre or central dialect that is also the basis for the standard language, the läänemurre or western dialect, roughly corresponding to Läänemaa and Pärnumaa, the saarte murre dialect of Saaremaa and Hiiumaa and the idamurre or eastern dialect on the northwestern shore of Lake Peipsi	What dialect is also known as the central dialect?
Also, Seto and Võro distinguish themselves from each other less by language and more by their culture and their respective Christian confession	More importantly than their language aspect how do the Seto and Võro dialects set themselves apart from each other?
Like Finnish, Estonian employs the Latin script as the basis for its alphabet, which adds the letters ä, ö, ü, and õ, plus the later additions š and ž	From what script does the Estonian language get its alphabet?
Although the Estonian orthography is generally guided by phonemic principles, with each grapheme corresponding to one phoneme, there are some historical and morphological deviations from this: for example preservation of the morpheme in declension of the word and in the use of 'i' and 'j'	What principles usually govern the Estonian orthography?
Modern Estonian orthography is based on the Newer Orthography created by Eduard Ahrens in the second half of the 19th century based on Finnish orthography	 In what Orthagraphy does Modern Estonian orthography have its basis?
It should be noted that Estonian words and names quoted in international publications from Soviet sources are often back-transliterations from the Russian transliteration	In Soviet international publications what language's transliteration are Estonian words and names often back-transliterations from?
Typologically, Estonian represents a transitional form from an agglutinating language to a fusional language	What is the typological form of Estonian?
In Estonian, nouns and pronouns do not have grammatical gender, but nouns and adjectives decline in fourteen cases: nominative, genitive, partitive, illative, inessive, elative, allative, adessive, ablative, translative, terminative, essive, abessive, and comitative, with the case and number of the adjective always agreeing with that of the noun 	What language lacks gendered nouns and pronouns?
partitive case opposition of the object used with transitive verbs creates a telicity contrast, just as in Finnish	What other language has a telicity contrast?
The verbal system lacks a distinctive future tense and features special forms to express an action performed by an undetermined subject 	From what system is a distinctive future tense lacking?
Although the Estonian and Germanic languages are of very different origins, one can identify many similar words in Estonian and English, for example	Close to 33 percent of Estonian's vocabulary belong to what group of languages?
Often 'b' & 'p' are interchangeable, for example 'baggage' becomes 'pagas', 'lob' becomes 'loopima'	What two letters can be replaced with each other a lot of the time in Estonian?
Estonian language planners such as Ado Grenzstein tried to use formation ex nihilo, Urschöpfung; i	Who was the journalist who was also a language planner?
The most famous reformer of Estonian, Johannes Aavik , used creations ex nihilo (cf	Of all of Estonian's language reformers who is the most well known?
Aavik had a broad classical education and knew Ancient Greek, Latin and French	What languages did Aavik know?
Paper is a thin material produced by pressing together moist fibres of cellulose pulp derived from wood, rags or grasses, and drying them into flexible sheets	What is a source for the particles in paper?
The pulp papermaking process is said to have been developed in China during the early 2nd century AD, possibly as early as the year 105 A	When was the pulp papermaking process developed?
The pulp papermaking process is ascribed to Cai Lun, a 2nd-century AD Han court eunuch	Who is credited with the papermaking process?
Its knowledge and uses spread from China through the Middle East to medieval Europe in the 13th century, where the first water powered paper mills were built	In what century did the papermaking process spread from China to Europe?
Papyrus is a thick, paper-like material produced from the pith of the Cyperus papyrus plant, which was used in ancient Egypt and other Mediterranean cultures for writing before the introduction of paper into the Middle East and Europe	What Latin word is paper derived from?
To make pulp from wood, a chemical pulping process separates lignin from cellulose fibres	What is separated from the cellulose fibres?
There are three main chemical pulping processes: the sulfite process dates back to the 1840s and it was the dominant method extent before the second world war	How many chemical pulping processes are there?
There are two major mechanical pulps, the thermomechanical one and groundwood pulp 	Besides the thermomechanical process, what is a process used in pulping?
Recycled papers can be made from 100% recycled materials or blended with virgin pulp, although they are not as strong nor as bright as papers made from the latter	Recylced papers can be made with what new type of pulp?
Besides the fibres, pulps may contain fillers such as chalk or china clay, which improve its characteristics for printing or writing	What type of clay improves the characteristics of the pulps used in papermaking?
Pressing the sheet removes the water by force; once the water is forced from the sheet, a special kind of felt, which is not to be confused with the traditional one, is used to collect the water; whereas when making paper by hand, a blotter sheet is used instead	How is the water removed by force from a sheet of paper?
Drying involves using air and/or heat to remove water from the paper sheets; in the earliest days of paper making this was done by hanging the sheets like laundry; in more modern times various forms of heated drying mechanisms are used	What is the main component of drying the paper?
Coated paper has a thin layer of material such as calcium carbonate or china clay applied to one or both sides in order to create a surface more suitable for high-resolution halftone screens	Besides calcium, coated paper has a thin layer of what?
The paper is then fed onto reels if it is to be used on web printing presses, or cut into sheets for other printing processes or other purposes	What contraption is used to carry the paper to the web printing presses?
All paper produced by paper machines as the Fourdrinier Machine are wove paper, i	What type of paper is produced on a machine like the Fourdrinier?
Laidlines are very close together	What type of lines does wove paper not exhibit?
The thickness of paper is often measured by caliper, which is typically given in thousandths of an inch in the United States and in thousandths of a mm in the rest of the world	What tool is often used in measuring the thickness of paper?
Paper is often characterized by weight	What characteristic is paper usually classified by?
In Europe, and other regions using the ISO 216 paper sizing system, the weight is expressed in grammes per square metre of the paper	What ISO sizing system does Europe use?
Most commercial paper sold in North America is cut to standard paper sizes based on customary units and is defined by the length and width of a sheet of paper	Commercial paper is commonly defined by what?
The ISO 216 system used in most other countries is based on the surface area of a sheet of paper, not on a sheet's width and length	Most countries besides the US use what ISO System?
2	How many sheets of A1 paper would cover one single piece of A0 paper?
The density of paper ranges from 250 kg/m3 for tissue paper to 1,500 kg/m3 for some speciality paper	What is the lightest density of paper produced?
"Alum was added to paper to assist in sizing, making it somewhat water resistant so that inks did not ""run"" or spread uncontrollably"	What acidic salts were commonly found in the early types of paper produced?
Paper made from mechanical pulp contains significant amounts of lignin, a major component in wood	What particle is associated with the yellowing of newspapers?
Furthermore, tests sponsored by the Library of Congress prove that all paper is at risk of acid decay, because cellulose itself produces formic, acetic, lactic and oxalic acids	Who sponsored the tests that show that all papers are subject to acid decay?
With almost twice the yield as chemical pulping, mechanical pulps is often cheaper	How many times more yield does the mechanical pulping process produce when compared to to the chemical pulping process?
Worldwide consumption of paper has risen by 400% in the past 40 years leading to increase in deforestation, with 35% of harvested trees being used for paper manufacture	In the last 40 years, how much has worldwide paper consumption risen?
Paper waste accounts for up to 40% of total waste produced in the United States each year, which adds up to 71	What percentage of total waste can be attributed to paper?
Conventional bleaching of wood pulp using elemental chlorine produces and releases into the environment large amounts of chlorinated organic compounds, including chlorinated dioxins	What process of papermaking is most heavily linked to the pollution?
Made out of paper, and known commercially as paperfoam, the new packaging has very similar mechanical properties to some expanded plastic packaging, but is biodegradable and can also be recycled with ordinary paper	What product used in the sale ofpaper is newly used by manufacturers in an effort to be more environmentally friendly?
With increasing environmental concerns about synthetic coatings and the higher prices of hydrocarbon based petrochemicals, there is a focus on zein as a coating for paper in high grease applications such as popcorn bags	What is newly used as a coating in high grease applications?
Paper recycling processes can use either chemically or mechanically produced pulp; by mixing it with water and applying mechanical action the hydrogen bonds in the paper can be broken and fibres separated again	What type of processes can only use chemically produced pulp?
Adult contemporary music is a style of music, ranging from 1960s vocal and 1970s soft rock music to predominantly ballad-heavy music of the present day, with varying degrees of easy listening, pop, soul, rhythm and blues, quiet storm, and rock influence	Along with pop, soul, rhythm and blues, quiet storm, and rock, what musical style influenced adult contemporary?
Adult contemporary tends to have lush, soothing and highly polished qualities where emphasis on melody and harmonies is accentuated	Along with harmonies, what aspect of music is emphasized in adult contemporary?
Adult contemporary is heavy on romantic sentimental ballads which mostly use acoustic instruments such as acoustic guitars, pianos, saxophones, and sometimes an orchestral set	What type of song is frequently seen in the adult contemporary genre?
AC radio often targets the 25–44 age group, the demographic that has received the most attention from advertisers since the 1960s	What age group does adult contemporary radio typically focus on?
"Over the years, AC has spawned subgenres including ""hot AC"", ""soft AC"" , ""urban AC"", ""rhythmic AC"", and ""Christian AC"" "	What is lite AC otherwise known as?
Adult contemporary traces its roots to the 1960s easy listening format, which adopted a 70-80% instrumental - 20-30% vocal mix	From what decade of easy listening radio does adult contemporary trace its heritage?
Initially, the vocalists consisted of artists such as Frank Sinatra, Doris Day, Johnny Mathis, Connie Francis, Nat King Cole, Perry Como, and others	Along with Frank Sinatra, Doris Day, Johnny Mathis, Nat King Cole, and Perry Como, who was a prominent early adult contemporary radio artist?
After 1965, differences between the Hot 100 chart and the Easy Listening chart became more pronounced	What chart did the Easy Listening chart begin to diverge from?
One big impetus for the development of the AC radio format was that, when rock and roll music first became popular in the mid-1950s, many more conservative radio stations wanted to continue to play current hit songs while shying away from rock	During what decade did rock and roll music first rise to popularity?
"Another big impetus for the evolution of the AC radio format was the popularity of easy listening or ""beautiful music"" stations, stations with music specifically designed to be purely ambient"	What was another term for easy listening stations?
Hard rock had been established as a mainstream genre by 1965	As of what year was hard rock a mainstream type of music?
The Hot 100 and Easy Listening charts became more similar again toward the end of the 1960s and into the early and mid-1970s, when the texture of much of the music played on Top 40 radio once more began to soften	At the end of what decade did the Hot 100 and Easy Listening charts begin to converge?
Soft rock reached its commercial peak in the mid-to-late 1970s with acts such as Toto, England Dan & John Ford Coley, Air Supply, Seals and Crofts, America and the reformed Fleetwood Mac, whose Rumours was the best-selling album of the decade	During what period was adult contemporary its most commercially successful?
Radio stations played Top 40 hits regardless of genre; although, most were in the same genre until the mid-1970s when different forms of popular music started to target different demographic groups, such as disco vs	What genre of music was was listening to by a different demographic than hard rock?
Also, some of these stations even played softer songs by Elvis Presley, Linda Ronstadt, Elton John, Rod Stewart, Billy Joel, and other rock-based artists	Along with Linda Ronstadt, Elton John, Rod Stewart and Elvis Presley, what rock musician sometimes had songs featured on adult contemporary radio?
Easy Listening radio also began including songs by artists who had begun in other genres, such as rock and roll or R&B	Along with rock and roll, what genre of music was sometimes featured on Easy Listening radio?
On April 7, 1979, the Easy Listening chart officially became known as Adult Contemporary, and those two words have remained consistent in the name of the chart ever since	When did the Adult Contemporary chart receive its current name?
Mainstream AC itself has evolved in a similar fashion over the years; traditional AC artists like Barbra Streisand, the Carpenters, Dionne Warwick, Barry Manilow, John Denver, and Olivia Newton-John found it harder to have major Top 40 hits as the 1980s wore on, and due to the influence of MTV, artists who were staples of the Contemporary Hit Radio format, such as Richard Marx, Michael Jackson, Bonnie Tyler, George Michael, Phil Collins, and Laura Branigan began crossing over to the AC charts with greater frequency	Along with Richard Marx, Bonnie Tyler, George Michael, Phil Collins, and Laura Branigan, what artist was also frequently played on Contemporary Hit Radio stations?
Not many disco or new wave songs were particularly successful on the AC chart during the late 1970s and early 1980s, and much of the hip-hop and harder rock music featured on CHR formats later in the decade would have been unacceptable on AC radio	In the 1970s, what two genres were not particularly successful on the adult contemporary charts?
Although dance-oriented, electronic pop and ballad-oriented rock dominated the 1980s, soft rock songs still enjoyed a mild success thanks to artists like Sheena Easton, Amy Grant, Lionel Richie, Christopher Cross, Dan Hill, Leo Sayer, Billy Ocean, Julio Iglesias, Bertie Higgins and Tommy Page	Along with electronic pop, what type of music was the most successful in the 1980s?
"In 1989, Linda Ronstadt released Cry Like a Rainstorm, Howl Like the Wind, described by critics as ""the first true Adult Contemporary album of the decade"", featuring American soul singer Aaron Neville on several of the twelve tracks"	"What artist issued the album known as ""the first true Adult Contemporary album of the decade""?"
The early 1990s marked the softening of urban R&B at the same time alternative rock emerged and traditional pop saw a significant resurgence	What decade saw the emergence of alternative rock?
Unlike the majority of 1980s mainstream singers, the 1990s mainstream pop/R&B singers such as All-4-One, Boyz II Men, Rob Thomas, Christina Aguilera, Backstreet Boys and Savage Garden generally crossed over to the AC charts	Mainstream artists from what decade generally did not have success on the adult contemporary charts?
In addition to Celine Dion, who has had significant success on this chart, other artists with multiple number ones on the AC chart in the 1990s include Mariah Carey, Phil Collins, Michael Bolton, Whitney Houston and Shania Twain	What milestone did Celine Dion, Mariah Carey, Phil Collins, Michael Bolton, Whitney Houston and Shania Twain share on the 1990s adult contemporary charts?
"In 1996, Billboard created a new chart called Adult Top 40, which reflects programming on radio stations that exists somewhere between ""adult contemporary"" music and ""pop"" music"	What was the name of the chart created by Billboard in 1996?
The urban adult contemporary format usually attracts a large number of African Americans and sometimes Caucasian listeners through playing a great deal of R&B , gospel music, classic soul and dance music 	"Who invented the term ""urban adult contemporary format""?"
"Another format, rhythmic AC, in addition to playing all the popular hot and soft AC music, past and present, places a heavy emphasis on disco as well as 1980s and 1990s dance hits, such as those by Amber, C&C Music Factory and Black Box, and includes dance remixes of pop songs, such as the Soul Solution mix of Toni Braxton's ""Unbreak My Heart"""	"Who performed the song ""Unbreak My Heart""?"
In its early years of existence, the smooth jazz format was considered to be a form of AC, although it was mainly instrumental, and related a stronger resemblance to the soft AC-styled music	What radio station format was sometimes regarded as a type of adult contemporary?
"Adrian Moreira, senior vice president for adult music for RCA Music Group, said, ""We've seen a fairly tidal shift in what AC will play"""	What is Adrian Moreira's job title?
Part of the reason why more and more hot AC stations are forced to change is that less and less new music fits their bill; most new rock is too alternative for mainstream radio and most new pop is now influenced heavily by dance-pop and electronic dance music	Who have hot AC format radio stations had to change the music they play?
"A popular trend in this era was remixing dance music hits into adult contemporary ballads, especially in the US, (for example, the ""Candlelight Mix"" versions of ""Heaven"" by DJ Sammy, ""Listen To Your Heart"" by D"	"What was the name of DJ Sammy's mix of ""Heaven""?"
While most artists became established in other formats before moving to adult contemporary, Michael Bublé and Josh Groban started out as AC artists	Along with Josh Groban, what notable pop artist started out his career on adult contemporary radio?
Since the mid-2000s, the mainstreaming of bands like Wilco and Feist have pushed indie rock into the adult contemporary conversation	What genre of music are bands like Feist and Wilco?
"The consolidation of the ""hot AC"" format contrasted with the near-demise of most other AC formats: Beginning with the 2005-2007 economic downturn and eventual recession most stations went for the more chart-based CHR, along with the top 40, urban and even Latino formats"	Along with the recession, what broad economic trend marked the decline of adult contemporary radio stations?
"The ""soft"" AC format has reinvented in the late 2000s/early 2010s as a result of its declining relevance, adopting a more upmarket, middle-of-the-road approach, with a selection of ""oldies"" , primarily rock, jazz, R&B and pop music"	"Generally speaking, what is the earliest decade represented by the ""oldies"" on soft AC stations?"
"Termed ""the acoustic equivalent to Prozac"", soft adult contemporary, a more adult-oriented version of AC, was born in the late 1970s and grew in the early 1980s"	"What radio format was described as being ""the acoustic equivalent to Prozac""?"
"Other popular names for the format include ""Warm"", ""Sunny"", ""Bee"" and ""EZ Rock"""	"In what country is soft adult contemporary called ""EZ Rock""?"
It often deals with modern romantic and sexual relationships in a thoughtful and complex way	Along with romantic and sexual relationships, family and work, what do soft adult contemporary songs sometimes discuss?
The soft AC format may soon be facing the demographic pressures that the jazz and big band formats faced in the 1960s and 1970s and that the oldies format is starting to face today, with the result that one may hear soft AC less on over-the-air radio and more on satellite radio systems in coming years	What radio station formats faced demographic pressures in the 1960s and 70s?
Artists contributing to this format include mainly soft rock/pop singers such as, Andy Williams, Johnny Mathis, Nana Mouskouri, Celine Dion, Julio Iglesias, Frank Sinatra, Barry Manilow, Engelbert Humperdinck, and Marc Anthony	Along with Andy Williams, Johnny Mathis, Nana Mouskouri, Celine Dion, Julio Iglesias, Barry Manilow, Engelbert Humperdinck, and Marc Anthony, what notable artist is featured on the soft AC format?
Hot adult contemporary radio stations play a variety of classic hits and contemporary mainstream music aimed at an adult audience	Along with classic hits, what type of music do hot adult contemporary stations feature?
This format often includes dance-pop , power pops , and adult-oriented soft rock music that are ballad-driven , The Eagles, Sting, Toto and The Moody Blues)	Madonna, Cher, Gloria Estefan and Kylie Minogue are artists in what genre of music?
"In 1997, Mike Marino of KMXB in Las Vegas described the format as reaching ""an audience that has outgrown the edgier hip-hop or alternative music but hasn't gotten old and sappy enough for the soft ACs"	What station did Mike Marino work for in 1997?
Urban AC is a form of AC music geared towards adult African-American audiences, and therefore, the artists that are played on these stations are most often black, such as Des'ree, whose album I Ain't Movin' was massively popular amongst both African American audience as well as the wider national audience	What age group is Urban AC focused towards?
The urban AC stations resemble soft AC rather than hot AC; they play predominantly R&B and soul music with little hip-hop	What other adult contemporary radio format is urban AC similar to?
"A more elaborate form of urban AC is the rhythmic oldies format, which focuses primarily on ""old school"" R&B and soul hits from the 1960s to the 1990s, including Motown and disco hits"	What radio format is similar to urban AC but features older soul and R&B songs?
A format called quiet storm is often included in urban adult contemporary, and is often played during the evening, blending the urban AC and soft AC styles of music	What radio format consists of ballads and slow jams?
Anita Baker, Sade, Regina Belle, and Luther Vandross are other examples of artists who appeal to mainstream AC, urban AC and smooth jazz listeners	Along with urban adult contemporary and smooth jazz, what station format might feature music from Sade?
Adult contemporary R&B may be played on both soft AC stations and urban AC	Along with soft AC, on what station format might adult contemporary R&B be featured?
In the 1980s, lush jazz-R&B fusion and stylish crossover R&B were equally successful within the mainstream	What genre of music did Patti Austin perform?
"Contemporary Christian music has several subgenres, one being ""Christian AC"""	What is CCM an acronym of?
In recent years it has become common for many AC stations, particularly soft AC stations, to play primarily or exclusively Christmas music during the Christmas season in November and December	What AC format is especially known for playing Christmas music in the Christmas season?
These Christmas music marathons typically start during the week before Thanksgiving Day and end after Christmas Day, or sometimes extending to New Year's Day	When does Christmas music on AC format stations usually begin?
Daylight saving time or summer time is the practice of advancing clocks during summer months by one hour so that in the evening daylight is experienced an hour longer, while sacrificing normal sunrise times	What term is used interchangeably with daylight saving time?
New Zealander George Hudson proposed the modern idea of daylight saving in 1895	Who first suggested daylight saving?
Although some early proponents of DST aimed to reduce evening use of incandescent lighting, which used to be a primary use of electricity, modern heating and cooling usage patterns differ greatly and research about how DST affects energy use is limited or contradictory	What used to be the main draw on electricity?
DST clock shifts sometimes complicate timekeeping and can disrupt travel, billing, record keeping, medical devices, heavy equipment, and sleep patterns	What can be affected by DST that might disrupt plans for a vacation?
Industrialized societies generally follow a clock-based schedule for daily activities that do not change throughout the course of the year	What kind of societies usually follow a regular daily schedule year-round?
By synchronously resetting all clocks in a region to one hour ahead of Standard Time , individuals who follow such a year-round schedule will wake an hour earlier than they would have otherwise; they will begin and complete daily work routines an hour earlier, and they will have available to them an extra hour of daylight after their workday activities	How much earlier do people's routines happen because of daylight savings?
Supporters have also argued that DST decreases energy consumption by reducing the need for lighting and heating, but the actual effect on overall energy use is heavily disputed	What two sources of energy use do DST proponents say are reduced by the time change?
The manipulation of time at higher latitudes has little impact on daily life, because the length of day and night changes more extremely throughout the seasons , and thus sunrise and sunset times are significantly out of sync with standard working hours regardless of manipulations of the clock	What latitudes see more extreme changes in the length of their days and nights throughout the year?
For example, Roman water clocks had different scales for different months of the year: at Rome's latitude the third hour from sunrise, hora tertia, started by modern standards at 09:02 solar time and lasted 44 minutes at the winter solstice, but at the summer solstice it started at 06:58 and lasted 75 minutes	What kind of clocks did the Romans use?
"During his time as an American envoy to France, Benjamin Franklin, publisher of the old English proverb, ""Early to bed, and early to rise, makes a man healthy, wealthy and wise"", anonymously published a letter suggesting that Parisians economize on candles by rising earlier to use morning sunlight"	"Who first published the proverb about waking up early and going to bed early to be ""healthy, wealthy, and wise""?"
Modern DST was first proposed by the New Zealand entomologist George Hudson, whose shift-work job gave him leisure time to collect insects, and led him to value after-hours daylight	What particular kind of scientist was George Hudson?
Starting on 30 April 1916, Germany and its World War I ally Austria-Hungary were the first to use DST as a way to conserve coal during wartime	What year did Germany decide to try DST?
It became widely adopted, particularly in North America and Europe starting in the 1970s as a result of the 1970s energy crisis	What event in the 1970s led more regions of North America to use DST?
Since then, the world has seen many enactments, adjustments, and repeals	Has the world seen many or few changes in the observation of DST?
In the case of the United States where a one-hour shift occurs at 02:00 local time, in spring the clock jumps forward from the last moment of 01:59 standard time to 03:00 DST and that day has 23 hours, whereas in autumn the clock jumps backward from the last moment of 01:59 DST to 01:00 standard time, repeating that hour, and that day has 25 hours	At what local time does the United States change the time?
Clock shifts are usually scheduled near a weekend midnight to lessen disruption to weekday schedules	During what part of the week is the time change most often scheduled?
The European Union shifts all at once, at 01:00 UTC or 02:00 CET or 03:00 EET; for example, Eastern European Time is always one hour ahead of Central European Time	Which time zone in Europe always has a one-hour lead on Central European Time?
Since 1996 European Summer Time has been observed from the last Sunday in March to the last Sunday in October; previously the rules were not uniform across the European Union	What year did the European Union standardize their Summer Time?
Beginning and ending dates are roughly the reverse in the southern hemisphere	In the southern hemisphere, what aspect of DST is about the reverse of that of the northern hemisphere?
Some countries observe it only in some regions; for example, southern Brazil observes it while equatorial Brazil does not	Which part of Brazil observes Daylight Saving Time?
"Winston Churchill argued that it enlarges ""the opportunities for the pursuit of health and happiness among the millions of people who live in this country"" and pundits have dubbed it ""Daylight Slaving Time"""	"What leader said daylight saving gives people more ""opportunities for the pursuit of health and happiness""?"
The proposal attracted many supporters, including Balfour, Churchill, Lloyd George, MacDonald, Edward VII , the managing director of Harrods, and the manager of the National Bank	Which political supporter of Willett's proposal had already used the half-hour version of DST at Sandringham?
US retailing and manufacturing interests led by Pittsburgh industrialist Robert Garland soon began lobbying for DST, but were opposed by railroads	What industrialist from Pittsburgh campaigned strongly in favor of DST?
Britain was an exception: it retained DST nationwide but over the years adjusted transition dates for several reasons, including special rules during the 1920s and 1930s to avoid clock shifts on Easter mornings	Which country continued to observe DST nationwide despite the fact that the war had ended?
In May 1965, for two weeks, St	What month and year were two neighboring cities in Minnesota on different time schedules?
In December 2008, the Daylight Saving for South East Queensland political party was officially registered in Queensland, advocating the implementation of a dual-time zone arrangement for Daylight Saving in South East Queensland while the rest of the state maintains standard time	What was the name of Queensland's political party set up solely to support their particular DST arrangement?
In the UK the Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents supports a proposal to observe SDST's additional hour year-round, but is opposed in some industries, such as postal workers and farmers, and particularly by those living in the northern regions of the UK	What was the name of the organization that supported adding an additional hour to their clocks all year?
In some Muslim countries DST is temporarily abandoned during Ramadan , since the DST would delay the evening dinner	What do Muslims call the month when they fast between sunup and sundown?
The 2011 declaration by Russia that it would not turn its clocks back and stay in DST all year long was subsequently followed by a similar declaration from Belarus	What year did Russia decide to never turn its clocks back?
Groups that tend to support DST are urban workers, retail businesses, outdoor sports enthusiasts and businesses, tourism operators, and others who benefit from increased light during the evening in summer	Which group is more likely to support DST: urban workers or rural farmers?
Opponents argue that actual energy savings are inconclusive, that DST increases health risks such as heart attack, that DST can disrupt morning activities, and that the act of changing clocks twice a year is economically and socially disruptive and cancels out any benefit	What major health risk do people who oppose DST say it increases?
Common agreement about the day's layout or schedule confers so many advantages that a standard DST schedule has generally been chosen over ad hoc efforts to get up earlier	Most people agree that a standardized schedule by DST is more practical than trying to do what in the morning on our own?
Delaying the nominal time of sunset and sunrise reduces the use of artificial light in the evening and increases it in the morning	DST will reduce electricity use in the evening but increase it during what time of the day?
Several studies have suggested that DST increases motor fuel consumption	Have studies shown DST generally increases or reduces gas consumption from cars?
Retailers, sporting goods makers, and other businesses benefit from extra afternoon sunlight, as it induces customers to shop and to participate in outdoor afternoon sports	What category of goods that are used in outdoor activities benefit from the extra hour of daylight from DST?
One reason why farmers oppose DST is that grain is best harvested after dew evaporates, so when field hands arrive and leave earlier in summer their labor is less valuable	Is it better to harvest grain before or after the morning dew evaporates?
For example, a 2007 North American rule change cost an estimated $500 million to $1 billion, and Utah State University economist William F	What year did a change in DST policy cost North America somewhere between $500 million and $1 billion in extra work?
5% to 2%, but the 1976 NBS review of the DOT study found no differences in traffic fatalities	In what year did the NBS revisit the DOT's 1975 study and find traffic fatalities unaffected?
's violent crime rate during DST	What did the LEAA say was reduced 10% to 13% in Washington, DC during daylight savings?
In several countries, fire safety officials encourage citizens to use the two annual clock shifts as reminders to replace batteries in smoke and carbon monoxide detectors, particularly in autumn, just before the heating and candle season causes an increase in home fires	There are more fires in the fall and winter because people burn more candles and turn what on to keep warm?
In societies with fixed work schedules it provides more afternoon sunlight for outdoor exercise	What do societies with standardized work schedules have more time for because of the increase in afternoon daylight from DST?
Effects on seasonal adaptation of the circadian rhythm can be severe and last for weeks	What natural rhythm is disrupted by seasonal changes?
An unexpected adverse effect of daylight saving time may lie in the fact that an extra part of morning rush hour traffic occurs before dawn and traffic emissions then cause higher air pollution than during daylight hours	Do emissions from vehicle exhaust cause lower or higher pollution before dawn?
During an autumn transition from 02:00 to 01:00, a clock reads times from 01:00:00 through 01:59:59 twice, possibly leading to confusion	During the fall time shift from 02:00 to 01:00, how many times will a clock show the times between 01:00:00 and 01:59:59?
Damage to a German steel facility occurred during a DST transition in 1993, when a computer timing system linked to a radio time synchronization signal allowed molten steel to cool for one hour less than the required duration, resulting in spattering of molten steel when it was poured	What year did an accident occur at a German facility with molten steel because of the change to DST?
Some clock-shift problems could be avoided by adjusting clocks continuously or at least more gradually—for example, Willett at first suggested weekly 20-minute transitions—but this would add complexity and has never been implemented	Willett's first suggestion was to change clocks by 20 minutes how often?
DST inherits and can magnify the disadvantages of standard time	What does DST inherit from standard time?
As explained by Richard Meade in the English Journal of the National Council of Teachers of English, the form daylight savings time was already in 1978 much more common than the older form daylight saving time in American English 	"What author is credited with explaining the usage of daylight saving time and daylight savings time with an ""s"" in the English Journal of the National Council of Teachers of English?"
In Britain, Willett's 1907 proposal used the term daylight saving, but by 1911 the term summer time replaced daylight saving time in draft legislation	Which term did Willett use in his 1907 proposal to refer to DST?
The name of local time typically changes when DST is observed	What usually changes when a place observes DST?
"The North American mnemonic ""spring forward, fall back"" (also ""spring ahead"	What phrase is often used in North America when speaking about DST?
Changes to DST rules cause problems in existing computer installations	What can cause issues with installed computer systems?
Some applications standardize on UTC to avoid problems with clock shifts and time zone differences	What system of time do some applications use so they won't have problems with time changes?
Many systems in use today base their date/time calculations from data derived from the IANA time zone database also known as zoneinfo	Where do most systems go to get the data they use to calculate local time?
The IANA time zone database maps a name to the named location's historical and predicted clock shifts	The IANA database works by connecting names to what information about the location?
Older or stripped-down systems may support only the TZ values required by POSIX, which specify at most one start and end rule explicitly in the value	Less sophisticated systems might just support a TZ value with one start rule and how many end rules?
As with zoneinfo, a user of Microsoft Windows configures DST by specifying the name of a location, and the operating system then consults a table of rule sets that must be updated when DST rules change	Similar to systems using zoneinfo, Microsoft Windows calculates DST by doing what?
Windows 95 used rules correct for 1995 only, causing problems in later years	What single year did Windows 95 use to apply rules to Israel's time changes?
Microsoft Windows keeps the system real-time clock in local time	What does Microsoft Windows use internally for its real-time clock?
The NTFS file system used by recent versions of Windows stores the file with a UTC time stamp, but displays it corrected to local—or seasonal—time	What file system do recent Windows versions use?
"A move to ""permanent daylight saving time"" is sometimes advocated, and has in fact been implemented in some jurisdictions such as Argentina, Chile, Iceland, Singapore, Uzbekistan and Belarus"	What phrase describes keeping adjusted summer hours year-round?
Xinjiang, China; Argentina; Chile; Iceland; Russia and other areas skew time zones westward, in effect observing DST year-round without complications from clock shifts	In which direction do countries like Russia and Argentina shift their time zones that could be considered all-year DST?
Western France, Spain, and other areas skew time zones and shift clocks, in effect observing DST in winter with an extra hour in summer	Places like Spain and parts of France effectively go by DST in the winter but add what in the summer?
The Royal Institute of British Architects is a professional body for architects primarily in the United Kingdom, but also internationally, founded for the advancement of architecture under its charter granted in 1837 and Supplemental Charter granted in 1971	What does RIBA stand for?
Originally named the Institute of British Architects in London, it was formed in 1834 by several prominent architects, including Philip Hardwick, Thomas Allom, William Donthorne, Thomas Leverton Donaldson, William Adams Nicholson, John Buonarotti Papworth, and Thomas de Grey, 2nd Earl de Grey	What was Riba's first name?
After the grant of the royal charter it had become known as the Royal Institute of British Architects in London, eventually dropping the reference to London in 1892	What caused the change of the Institute's name?
It was granted its Royal Charter in 1837 under King William IV	When did the Royal Institute receive its charter?
The original Charter of 1837 set out the purpose of the Royal Institute to be: '… the general advancement of Civil Architecture, and for promoting and facilitating the acquirement of the knowledge of the various arts and sciences connected therewith…'	What was the central aim of the Royal Institute?
The operational framework is provided by the Byelaws, which are more frequently updated than the Charter	What sets forth the standards by which the Royal Institute functions?
"The description in the 1837 by-laws was: ""gules, two lions rampant guardant or, supporting a column marked with lines chevron, proper, all standing on a base of the same; a garter surrounding the whole with the inscription Institute of British Architects, anno salutis MDCCCXXXIV; above a mural crown proper, and beneath the motto Usui civium decori urbium """	What was the first Latin phrase used by the Royal Institute?
In the nineteenth and twentieth centuries the RIBA and its members had a leading part in the promotion of architectural education in the United Kingdom, including the establishment of the Architects' Registration Council of the United Kingdom and the Board of Architectural Education under the Architects Acts, 1931 to 1938	What organization was the Royal Institute instrumental in establishing?
Soon after the passing of the 1931 Act, in the book published on the occasion of the Institute's centenary celebration in 1934, Harry Barnes, FRIBA, Chairman of the Registration Committee, mentioned that ARCUK could not be a rival of any architectural association, least of all the RIBA, given the way ARCUK was constituted	When did the Royal Institute celebrate its 100th anniversary?
"The Guide's section on ""Education"" records the setting up in 1904 of the RIBA Board of Architectural Education, and the system by which any school which applied for recognition, whose syllabus was approved by the Board and whose examinations were conducted by an approved external examiner, and whose standard of attainment was guaranteed by periodical inspections by a ""Visiting Board"" from the BAE, could be placed on the list of ""recognized schools"" and its successful students could qualify for exemption from RIBA examinations"	When does the Royal Institute's Guide indicate the first RIBA Board was established?
By the 1970s another issue had emerged affecting education for qualification and registration for practice as an architect, due to the obligation imposed on the United Kingdom and other European governments to comply with European Union Directives concerning mutual recognition of professional qualifications in favour of equal standards across borders, in furtherance of the policy for a single market of the European Union	What organization's policies regarding acceptance of professional qualifications prompted thoughts of revamping ARCUK?
RIBA Visiting Boards continue to assess courses for exemption from the RIBA's examinations in architecture	What is the function of the Royal Institute's Visiting Boards?
The RIBA is a member organisation, with 44,000 members	How many people have membership in the Royal Institute?
RIBA is based at 66 Portland Place, London—a 1930s Grade II* listed building designed by architect George Grey Wornum with sculptures by Edward Bainbridge Copnall and James Woodford	What is the Royal Institute of British Architects' street address?
The Institute also maintains a dozen regional offices around the United Kingdom, it opened its first regional office for the East of England at Cambridge in 1966	How many satellite offices does the Royal Institute run in the UK?
RIBA Enterprises is the commercial arm of RIBA, with a registered office in Newcastle upon Tyne, a base at 15 Bonhill Street in London, and an office in Newark	What is the name of the Royal Institute's business operation?
Its services include RIBA Insight, RIBA Appointments, and RIBA Publishing	What are three divisions of RIBA Enterprises?
The British Architectural Library, sometimes referred to as the RIBA Library, was established in 1834 upon the founding of the institute with donations from members	What is another name for the Royal Institute Library?
The overcrowded conditions of the library was one of the reasons why the RIBA moved from 9 Conduit Street to larger premises at 66 Portland Place in 1934	What was the RIBA Library's first address?
The library is based at two public sites: the Reading Room at the RIBA's headquarters, 66 Portland Place, London; and the RIBA Architecture Study Rooms in the Henry Cole Wing of the V&A	Where is the Royal Institute Library's Reading Room located?
Since 2004, through the V&A + RIBA Architecture Partnership, the RIBA and V&A have worked together to promote the understanding and enjoyment of architecture	When did the Victoria and Albert Museum and the Royal Institute of British Architects start a formal relationship?
In 2004, the two institutions created the Architecture Gallery at the V&A showing artefacts from the collections of both institutions, this was the first permanent gallery devoted to architecture in the UK	In what space at the V&A is the Architecture Gallery located?
RIBA runs many awards including the Stirling Prize for the best new building of the year, the Royal Gold Medal , which honours a distinguished body of work, and the Stephen Lawrence Prize for projects with a construction budget of less than £500,000	What does the Royal Institute of British Architects award the Stirling Prize for?
Architectural design competitions are used by an organisation that plans to build a new building or refurbish an existing building	What are events that a company can sponsor when it is planning a new construction project or redesigning an existing one?
In addition to the Architects Registration Board, the RIBA provides accreditation to architecture schools in the UK under a course validation procedure	Aside from the ARB, what other organization offers accreditation services for schools serving architects?
The RIBA has three parts to the education process: Part I which is generally a three-year first degree, a year-out of at least one year work experience in an architectural practice precedes the Part II which is generally a two-year post graduate diploma or masters	What is the first step in the Royal Institute's guidelines for education?
In 2007, RIBA called for minimum space standards in newly built British houses after research was published suggesting that British houses were falling behind other European countries	What did the Royal Institute support in order to keep up with housing in mainland Europe?
The National Archives and Records Administration is an independent agency of the United States government charged with preserving and documenting government and historical records and with increasing public access to those documents, which comprise the National Archives	NARA is responsible for what collection of archives?
The Archivist of the United States is the chief official overseeing the operation of the National Archives and Records Administration	What is the official that oversees the operation of NARA?
The Office of the Federal Register publishes the Federal Register, Code of Federal Regulations, and United States Statutes at Large, among others	What office publishes the Federal Register?
The National Historical Publications and Records Commission —the agency's grant-making arm—awards funds to state and local governments, public and private archives, colleges and universities, and other nonprofit organizations to preserve and publish historical records	Which arm of NARA handles grants?
The Office of Government Information Services is a Freedom of Information Act resource for the public and the government	OGIS provides what resource for the government and public?
Congress established the National Archives Establishment in 1934 to centralize federal record keeping, with the Archivist of the United States as chief administrator	What year was the National Archives Establishment established in?
Connor, began serving in 1934, when the National Archives was established by Congress	When did the first Archivist start at the National Archives?
The program was originally scheduled to end in 2007	When was the reclassification program originally intended to end?
In 2010, Executive Order 13526 created the National Declassification Center to coordinate declassification practices across agencies, provide secure document services to other agencies, and review records in NARA custody for declassification	What year was Executive Order 13526 created?
"NARA's holdings are classed into ""record groups"" reflecting the governmental department or agency from which they originated"	What types of groups are NARA's holdings classified into?
Archival descriptions of the permanent holdings of the federal government in the custody of NARA are stored in Archival Research Catalog 	Where are archival descriptions of holdings under the custody of NARA stored?
Most records at NARA are in the public domain, as works of the federal government are excluded from copyright protection	Most of NARA's holdings are available to sector?
This includes census records from 1790 to 1930, ships' passenger lists, and naturalization records	Besides census records and passenger lists, what NARA documents are particularly useful to genealogists?
The National Archives Building, known informally as Archives I, located north of the National Mall on Constitution Avenue in Washington, D	What is the informal name of The National Archives Building?
As a result, all filming, photographing, and videotaping by the public in the exhibition areas has been prohibited since February 25, 2010	Since when has all filming and photography in the Rotunda for the Charters of Freedom been banned?
Because of space constraints, NARA opened a second facility, known informally as Archives II, in 1994 near the University of Maryland, College Park campus 	What is the second facility of NARA named?
The Washington National Records Center , located in Suitland, Maryland is a large warehouse type facility which stores federal records which are still under the control of the creating agency	Where is The Washington National Records Center located?
The National Archives Building in downtown Washington holds record collections such as all existing federal census records, ships' passenger lists, military unit records from the American Revolution to the Philippine–American War, records of the Confederate government, the Freedmen's Bureau records, and pension and land records	Where is the National Archives Building located?
There are facilities across the country with research rooms, archival holdings, and microfilms of documents of federal agencies and courts pertinent to each region	What do the facilities designated to each area of the US specialize in?
In addition, Federal Records Centers exist in each region that house materials owned by Federal agencies	Where are some of the items relevant to JFKs medical treatments housed?
NARA also maintains the Presidential Library system, a nationwide network of libraries for preserving and making available the documents of U	What agency maintains the Presidential Library system?
Libraries and museums have been established for other presidents, but they are not part of the NARA presidential library system, and are operated by private foundations, historical societies, or state governments, including the Abraham Lincoln, Rutherford B	Libraries that are established for other presidents are operated by private foundations, historical societies, and what government entities?
In an effort to make its holdings more widely available and more easily accessible, the National Archives began entering into public–private partnerships in 2006	In what year did the National Archives make strides towards making its holdings more widely available?
com launched a pilot project to digitize historic documents from the National Archives holdings	What was the aim of the partnership with Fold3.com?
In July 2007, the National Archives announced it would make its collection of Universal Newsreels from 1929 to 1967 available for purchase through CreateSpace, an Amazon	In what year did the National Archives announce that it would make its collection of Universal Newsreels available for purchase online?
com for a 5-year embargo period at which point the digital records will be turned over to the National Archives	What happens after the 5 year embargo that allows Ancestry.com exclusive use of digitized records?
5	How many years has Ancestry.com been prominent online?
"On June 18, 2009, the National Archives announced the launching of a YouTube channel ""to showcase popular archived films, inform the public about upcoming events around the country, and bring National Archives exhibits to the people"	Which Google affiliated website did the National Archives decide to use in 2009?
In 2011 the National Archives initiated a Wikiproject on the English Wikipedia to expand collaboration in making its holdings widely available through Wikimedia	In 2011, what sort of Wikipedia addition did the National Archives make?
Tristan da Cunha /ˈtrɪstən də ˈkuːnjə/, colloquially Tristan, is both a remote group of volcanic islands in the south Atlantic Ocean and the main island of that group	what type of islands are the Tristan da Cunha
Tristan da Cunha is part of the British overseas territory of Saint Helena, Ascension and Tristan da Cunha	what territory is Tristan da Cunha part of?
The islands were first sighted in 1506 by Portuguese explorer Tristão da Cunha; rough seas prevented a landing	in what year were the islands first sighted?
The first permanent settler was Jonathan Lambert, from Salem, Massachusetts, United States, who arrived at the islands in December 1810 with two other men	what was the name of the first long term settler? 
In 1816, the United Kingdom annexed the islands, ruling them from the Cape Colony in South Africa	in what year did the UK annex the islands?
In 1867, Prince Alfred, Duke of Edinburgh and second son of Queen Victoria, visited the islands	in what year did Prince Alfred visit the island?
However, the opening of the Suez Canal in 1869, together with the gradual move from sailing ships to coal-fired steam ships, increased the isolation of the islands, as they were no longer needed as a stopping port or for shelter for journeys from Europe to East Asia	what is one reason that caused the island to become less used?
On 12 January 1938 by Letters Patent the islands were declared a dependency of Saint Helena	what year were the islands declared dependent of saint helena?
During World War II, the islands were used as a top secret Royal Navy weather and radio station codenamed HMS Atlantic Isle, to monitor Nazi U-boats and shipping movements in the South Atlantic Ocean	During what war was the island used as a Royal Navy station?
In 1958 as part of an experiment, Operation Argus, the United States Navy detonated an atomic bomb 160 kilometres high in the upper atmosphere about 175 kilometres southeast of the main island	What year was an atomic bomb detonated near the island?
The 1961 eruption of Queen Mary's Peak forced the evacuation of the entire population via Cape Town to England	What year was the island evacuated due to an eruption?
On 23 May 2001, the islands experienced an extratropical cyclone that generated winds up to 190 kilometres per hour 	In what year was the island hit by an extratropical cyclone?
On 4 December 2007 an outbreak of an acute virus-induced flu was reported	what year was a virus induced flu reported?
On 13 February 2008, fire destroyed the fishing factory and the four generators that supplied power to the island	What year did a large fire destroy the fishing factory?
On 16 March 2011, the freighter MS Oliva ran aground on Nightingale Island, spilling tons of heavy fuel oil into the ocean, leaving an oil slick threatening the island's population of rockhopper penguins	When did the freighter Nightingale run aground?
On November 2011, the sailing boat Puma's Mar Mostro participant in Volvo Ocean Race arrived to the island after her mast broke in the first leg from Alicante and Cape Town	When did a boat arrive at the island with damage during a race?
From December 1937 to March 1938 a Norwegian party made the first ever scientific expedition to Tristan da Cunha	During which time did a British party make the first scientific expedition to Tristan da Cunha?
The only flat area is on the north-west coast, which is the location of the only settlement, Edinburgh of the Seven Seas	What is located in the south-west coast?
The archipelago has a wet oceanic climate with pleasant temperatures but consistent moderate to heavy rainfall and very limited sunshine, due to the persistent westerly winds	What has a wet oceanic climate with unpleasant temperatures?
The island has been identified as an Important Bird Area by BirdLife International because there are 13 known species of breeding seabirds on the island and two species of resident land birds	Who has identified the island as an Important Antarctic Area?
The island's unique social and economic organisation has evolved over the years, but is based on the principles set out by William Glass in 1817 when he established a settlement based on equality	What is based on principles put into place by William Glass in 2013?
The 1961 volcanic eruption destroyed the Tristan da Cunha canned crawfish factory, which was rebuilt a short time later	Which South African Company was destroyed by a 1961 volcanic eruption?
There is an annual break from government and factory work which begins before Christmas and lasts for 3 weeks	For how long does the biannual break from government last?
Healthcare is funded by the government, undertaken by one resident doctor from South Africa and five nurses	What is the government funded by?
The Tristan Song Project was a collaboration between St Mary's School and amateur composers in England, led by music teacher Tony Triggs	Who collaborated with St. Mary's School to create the amateur composers Project?
The main settlement is Edinburgh of the Seven Seas 	What is The Settlement known by locals as?
Executive authority is vested in the Queen, who is represented in the territory by the Governor of Saint Helena	Who is the Governor of Saint Helena represented by?
The remote location of the islands makes transport to the outside world difficult	What makes travelling to the outside world easy?
From 1998 to 2006, internet was available in Tristan da Cunha but its high cost made it almost unaffordable for the local population, who primarily used it only to send email	From when was there a low cost, high speed internet available on the island?
The University of Kansas is a public research university and the largest in the U	What is the abbreviation by which the University of Kansas is known?
There are also educational and research sites in Parsons and Topeka, and branches of the University of Kansas School of Medicine in Wichita and Salina	In what two cities are there satellite locations for KU's medical school?
Enrollment at the Lawrence and Edwards campuses was 23,597 students in fall 2014; an additional 3,371 students were enrolled at the KU Medical Center for a total enrollment of 26,968 students across the three campuses	How many people attended the University of Kansas at its Edwards and Lawrence locations in the fall semester of 2014?
On February 20, 1863, Kansas Governor Thomas Carney signed into law a bill creating the state university in Lawrence	On what date was KU's Lawrence campus made official?
The site selected for the university was a hill known as Mount Oread, which was owned by former Kansas Governor Charles L	On what geographic feature was KU built?
During World War II, Kansas was one of 131 colleges and universities nationally that took part in the V-12 Navy College Training Program which offered students a path to a Navy commission	How many institutions participated in the V-12 program?
The university is host to several museums including the University of Kansas Natural History Museum and the Spencer Museum of Art	What is the name of a fine art institution on the campus of KU?
The University of Kansas is a large, state-sponsored university, with five campuses	How many campuses are run by KU?
The city management and urban policy program was ranked first in the nation, and the special education program second, by U	What program at the University of Kansas was rated highest among its peers?
The University of Kansas School of Architecture, Design, and Planning , with its main building being Marvin Hall, traces its architectural roots to the creation of the architectural engineering degree program in KU's School of Engineering in 1912	What KU school is abbreviated as SADP?
"According to the journal DesignIntelligence, which annually publishes ""America's Best Architecture and Design Schools,"" the School of Architecture and Urban Design at the University of Kansas was named the best in the Midwest and ranked 11th among all undergraduate architecture programs in the U"	What is the name of the publication that ranks schools engaged in architecture and design education?
The University of Kansas School of Business is a public business school located on the main campus of the University of Kansas in Lawrence, Kansas	What kind of institution is KU's School of Business?
Named one of the best business schools in the Midwest by Princeton Review, the KU School of Business has been continually accredited by the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business for both its undergraduate and graduate programs in business and accounting	Who considered the business school of the University of Kansas among the best Midwestern business institutions?
"News & World Report ""Best Graduate Schools"" edition"	In 2014, what issue of U.S. News & World Report provided rankins for law schools?
The KU School of Engineering is an ABET accredited, public engineering school located on the main campus	What is the acronym for an organization that serves as an accreditation body for engineering schools?
"News & World Report's ""America’s Best Colleges"" 2016 issue, KU’s School of Engineering was ranked tied for 90th among national universities"	In what place did the engineering school at KU appear in 2016?
Notable alumni include: Alan Mulally , former President and CEO of Ford Motor Company, Lou Montulli, co-founder of Netscape and author of the Lynx web browser, Brian McClendon , VP of Engineering at Google, Charles E	What former leader of a car manufacturing company attended KU?
The William Allen White School of Journalism and Mass Communications is recognized for its ability to prepare students to work in a variety of media when they graduate	What is the full name of KU's journalism school?
The University of Kansas Medical Center features three schools: the School of Medicine, School of Nursing, and School of Health Professions	What are the three constituents of the medical center at KU?
KU's Edwards Campus is in Overland Park, Kansas	In what city is the Edwards Campus located?
Tuition at KU is 13 percent below the national average, according to the College Board, and the University remains a best buy in the region	Who provides statistics on educational costs?
Beginning in the 2007–2008 academic year, first-time freshman at KU pay a fixed tuition rate for 48 months according to the Four-Year Tuition Compact passed by the Kansas Board of Regents	What was first instituted for first year students in the 2007-2008 school year?
KU's School of Business launched interdisciplinary management science graduate studies in operations research during Fall Semester 1965	What was launched in 1965 by the business school at KU?
KU's academic computing department was an active participant in setting up the Internet and is the developer of the early Lynx text based web browser	What division of the University of Kansas contributed to the development of the internet?
The school's sports teams, wearing crimson and royal blue, are called the Kansas Jayhawks	What colors are worn by KU's athletic teams?
KU football dates from 1890, and has played in the Orange Bowl three times: 1948, 1968, and 2008	When did KU start fielding a football team?
The KU men's basketball team has fielded a team every year since 1898	What was the first year in which a men's team played basketball at the University of Kansas?
Sheahon Zenger was introduced as KU's new athletic director in January 2011	Who is in charge of all sports teams at KU?
The University of Kansas has had more teams compete in the National Debate Tournament than any other university	How many times have KU teams appeared in the National Debate Tournament?
"Notable among a number of songs commonly played and sung at various events such as commencement and convocation, and athletic games are: ""I’m a Jayhawk"", ""Fighting Jayhawk"", ""Kansas Song"", ""Sunflower Song"", ""Crimson and the Blue"", ""Red and Blue"", the ""Rock Chalk, Jayhawk"" chant"", ""Home on the Range"" and ""Stand Up and Cheer"	What are two events non-sports at which school songs are often heard?
"The school newspaper of the University of Kansas is University Daily Kansan, which placed first in the Intercollegiate Writing Competition of the prestigious William Randolph Hearst Writing Foundation competition, often called ""The Pulitzers of College Journalism"" in 2007"	What is the name of the newspaper printed every day by the University of Kansas?
The University Daily Kansan operates outside of the university's William Allen White School of Journalism and reaches an audience of at least 30,000 daily readers through its print and online publications	In what two forms of media is the Daily Kansan available?
The university houses the following public broadcasting stations: KJHK, a student-run campus radio station, KUJH-LP, an independent station that primarily broadcasts public affairs programs, and KANU, the NPR-affiliated radio station	What are the call letters of the National Public Radio affiliate that broadcasts from KU?
The first union was built on campus in 1926 as a campus community center	When was KU's first student union constructed?
KU Endowment was established in 1891 as America’s first foundation for a public university	What is the name of the University of Kansas's foundation?
The Community Tool Box is a public service of the University maintained by the Work Group for Community Health and Development	What is the name of a publicly-available resource of KU related to community health?
Nanjing is the city situated in the heartland of lower Yangtze River region in China, which has long been a major centre of culture, education, research, politics, economy, transport networks and tourism	What is the legal capital of the Republic of China?
Located in Yangtze River Delta area and the center of East China, Nanjing is home to one of the world's largest inland ports	What part of China is Nanjing located?
Nanjing, one of the nation's most important cities for over a thousand years, is recognized as one of the Four Great Ancient Capitals of China, and had been the world's largest city aggregately for hundreds of years, enjoyed peace and prosperity and beared wars and disasters	How long has Nanjing been important?
"Archaeological discovery shows that ""Nanjing Man"" lived in more than 500 thousand years ago"	"How long ago did ""Nanjing Man"" live?"
Nanjing first became a state capital in 229 AD, when the state of Eastern Wu founded by Sun Quan during the Three Kingdoms period relocated its capital to Jianye , the city extended on the basis of Jinling Yi in 211 AD	When did Nanjing become a state capital?
Shortly after the unification of the region, the Western Jin dynasty collapsed	What happened prior to the collapse of the Western Jin dynasty?
During the period of North–South division, Nanjing remained the capital of the Southern dynasties for more than two and a half centuries	How long was Nanjing the capital of the Southern dynasties?
A number of sculptural ensembles of that era, erected at the tombs of royals and other dignitaries, have survived in Nanjing's northeastern and eastern suburbs, primarily in Qixia and Jiangning District	What has survived in Nanjing's suburbs?
It was chosen as the capital and called Jinling during the Southern Tang , a state that succeeded Wu state	When was Nanjing made a capital again?
The first emperor of the Ming dynasty, Zhu Yuanzhang , who overthrew the Yuan dynasty, renamed the city Yingtian, rebuilt it, and made it the dynastic capital in 1368	Who was the first emperor of the Ming dynasty?
It is believed that Nanjing was the largest city in the world from 1358 to 1425 with a population of 487,000 in 1400	When was Nanjing considered to be the biggest city in the world?
Besides the city wall, other famous Ming-era structures in the city included the famous Ming Xiaoling Mausoleum and Porcelain Tower, although the latter was destroyed by the Taipings in the 19th century either in order to prevent a hostile faction from using it to observe and shell the city or from superstitious fear of its geomantic properties	What is the name of the famous mausoleum in Nanjing?
A monument to the huge human cost of some of the gigantic construction projects of the early Ming dynasty is the Yangshan Quarry east of the walled city and Ming Xiaoling mausoleum), where a gigantic stele, cut on the orders of the Yongle Emperor, lies abandoned, just as it was left 600 years ago when it was understood it was impossible to move or complete it	What large item is abandoned at the Quarry?
It was home of the admiral Zheng He, who went to sail the Pacific and Indian Oceans, and it was visited by foreign dignitaries, such as a king from Borneo , who died during his visit to China in 1408	What Admiral called Nanjing his home?
I	What visiting king died in China in 1408?
After the fall of Beijing to Li Zicheng's rebel forces and then to the Manchu-led Qing dynasty in the spring of 1644, the Ming prince Zhu Yousong was enthroned in Nanjing in June 1644 as the Hongguang Emperor	When did Beijing lose to Li Zicheng's rebel forces and the Manchu-led Qing dynasty?
Days after Yangzhou fell to the Manchus in late May 1645, the Hongguang Emperor fled Nanjing, and the imperial Ming Palace was looted by local residents	When did the Hongguang Emperor leave Nanjing, having been defeated?
Under the Qing dynasty , the Nanjing area was known as Jiangning and served as the seat of government for the Viceroy of Liangjiang	When was the Qing dynasty in power?
Both the Qing viceroy and the Taiping king resided in buildings that would later be known as the Presidential Palace	Who lived in buildings that would later come to be known as the Presidential Palace?
The Xinhai Revolution led to the founding of the Republic of China in January 1912 with Sun Yat-sen as the first provisional president and Nanking was selected as its new capital	When was the Republic of China founded?
In 1927, the Kuomintang under Generalissimo Chiang Kai-shek again established Nanjing as the capital of the Republic of China, and this became internationally recognized once KMT forces took Beijing in 1928	When was Nanjing re-established as the capital of the Republic of China?
In 1937, the Empire of Japan started a full-scale invasion of China after invading Manchuria in 1931, beginning the Second Sino-Japanese War 	When did Japan invade Manchuria?
A few days before the fall of the city, the National Government of China was relocated to the southwestern city Chungking and resumed Chinese resistance	When was the National Government of China moved to Chungking?
On 21 April, Communist forces crossed the Yangtze River	When did the Communist troops cross the Yangtze River?
Nanjing, with a total land area of 6,598 square kilometres , is situated in the heartland of drainage area of lower reaches of Yangtze River, and in Yangtze River Delta, one of the largest economic zones of China	How large is Nanjing, in miles?
Nanjing borders Yangzhou to the northeast, one town downstream when following the north bank of the Yangtze, Zhenjiang to the east, one town downstream when following the south bank of the Yangtze, and Changzhou to the southeast	What city is northeast of Nanjing?
Nanjing is the intersection of Yangtze River, an east-west water transport artery, and Nanjing–Beijing railway, a south-north land transport artery, hence the name “door of the east and west, throat of the south and north”	What is the east-west waterway near Nanjing?
Nanjing has a humid subtropical climate and is under the influence of the East Asian monsoon	What type of climate does Nanjing enjoy?
Nanjing is endowed with rich natural resources, which include more than 40 kinds of minerals	How many types of minerals are found in Nanjing?
Natural lakes such as Xuanwu Lake and Mochou Lake are located in the centre of the city and are easily accessible to the public, while hills like Purple Mountain are covered with evergreens and oaks and host various historical and cultural sites	What lakes are in the middle of Nanjing?
A dense wave of smog began in the Central and Eastern part of China on 2 December 2013 across a distance of around 1,200 kilometres , including Tianjin, Hebei, Shandong, Jiangsu, Anhui, Shanghai and Zhejiang	When did a thick wave of smog first appear in Central and Eastern China?
"At present, the full name of the government of Nanjing is ""People's Government of Nanjing City"" and the city is under the one-party rule of the CPC, with the CPC Nanjing Committee Secretary as the de facto governor of the city and the mayor as the executive head of the government working under the secretary"	What is the full name for Nanjing's government?
According to the Sixth China Census, the total population of the City of Nanjing reached 8	How was the population figure for 2010 obtained?
As in most of eastern China the ethnic makeup of Nanjing is predominantly Han nationality (98	What is the overwhelming ethnic majority in Nanjing?
Since the Three Kingdoms period, Nanjing has been an industrial centre for textiles and minting owing to its strategic geographical location and convenient transportation	In addition to textiles, what other industry is Nanjing known for, since the Three Kingdoms period?
Into the first half of the twentieth century after the establishment of ROC, Nanjing gradually shifted from being a production hub towards being a heavy consumption city, mainly because of the rapid expansion of its wealthy population after Nanjing once again regained the political spotlight of China	In what time period did Nanjing transform from a producer to more of a consumer city?
In the 1950s after PRC was established by CPC, the government invested heavily in the city to build a series of state-owned heavy industries, as part of the national plan of rapid industrialization, converting it into a heavy industry production centre of East China	What did the government build in Nanjing during the 1950's?
Service industries are dominating, accounting for about 60 percent of the GDP of the city, and financial industry, culture industry and tourism industry are top 3 of them	What type of industries are now dominant in Nanjing?
In 2013 the city's GDP was RMB 801 billion , and GDP per capita was RMB 98,174, a 11 percent increase from 2012	What was Nanjing's GDP in 2013?
Different means of transportation constitute a three-dimensional transport system that includes land, water and air	What are the three types of transport in Nanjing?
Nanjing is an important railway hub in eastern China	Nanjing's railway is important, and is located in what region of China?
Among all 17 railway stations in Nanjing, passenger rail service is mainly provided by Nanjing Railway Station and Nanjing South Railway Station, while other stations like Nanjing West Railway Station, Zhonghuamen Railway Station and Xianlin Railway Station serve minor roles	How many railway stations are there in Nanjing?
Express highways such as Hu–Ning, Ning–He, Ning–Hang enable commuters to travel to Shanghai, Hefei, Hangzhou, and other important cities quickly and conveniently	What type of highways let commuters get to cities fast?
The city also boasts an efficient network of public transportation, which mainly consists of bus, taxi and metro systems	What are the main types of public transportation?
Nanjing's airport, Lukou International Airport, serves both national and international flights	What is Nanjing's airport called?
Port of Nanjing is the largest inland port in China, with annual cargo tonnage reached 191,970,000 t in 2012	What is the largest inland port for China?
In the 1960s, the first Nanjing Yangtze River Bridge was completed, and served as the only bridge crossing over the Lower Yangtze in eastern China at that time	When was the very first Nanjing Yangtze River Bridge finished?
Being one of the four ancient capitals of China, Nanjing has always been a cultural centre attracting intellectuals from all over the country	How many ancient capitals does China have in its history?
Today, with a long cultural tradition and strong support from local educational institutions, Nanjing is commonly viewed as a “city of culture” and one of the more pleasant cities to live in China	How is Nanjing seen, from a cultural perspective?
Some of the leading art groups of China are based in Nanjing; they include the Qianxian Dance Company, Nanjing Dance Company, Jiangsu Peking Opera Institute and Nanjing Xiaohonghua Art Company among others	Where do some of the country's most prominent art groups call home?
Jiangsu Province Kun Opera is one of the best theatres for Kunqu, China's oldest stage art	What is the name of China's oldest stage art?
Jiangsu Art Gallery is the largest gallery in Jiangsu Province, presenting some of the best traditional and contemporary art pieces of China; many other smaller-scale galleries, such as Red Chamber Art Garden and Jinling Stone Gallery, also have their own special exhibitions	What is the name of the largest art gallery in Jiangsu Province?
Many traditional festivals and customs were observed in the old times, which included climbing the City Wall on January 16, bathing in Qing Xi on March 3, hill hiking on September 9 and others 	When was the festival of climbing on the city wall celebrated?
Instead, Nanjing, as a popular tourist destination, hosts a series of government-organised events throughout the year	What city is considered to be a place that is popular with tourists?
Nanjing Library, founded in 1907, houses more than 10 million volumes of printed materials and is the third largest library in China, after the National Library in Beijing and Shanghai Library	When was the Nanjing Library completed?
Nanjing has some of the oldest and finest museums in China	What city contains some of the finest and oldest museums in all of China?
Most of Nanjing's major theatres are multi-purpose, used as convention halls, cinemas, musical halls and theatres on different occasions	What can most of Nanjing's multi-purpose theatres be used for?
Traditionally Nanjing's nightlife was mostly centered around Nanjing Fuzimiao area along the Qinhuai River, where night markets, restaurants and pubs thrived	What three things were popular in the Nanjing Fuzimiao area?
In the past 20 years, several commercial streets have been developed, hence the nightlife has become more diverse: there are shopping malls opening late in the Xinjiekou CBD and Hunan Road	When did more commercial streets become built in Nanjing?
The radish is also a typical food representing people of Nanjing, which has been spread through word of mouth as an interesting fact for many years in China	What is considered to be a typical food for a Nanjing resident?
As a major Chinese city, Nanjing is home to many professional sports teams	Generally, what types of teams call Nanjing home?
There are two major sports centers in Nanjing, Wutaishan Sports Center and Nanjing Olympic Sports Center	Which sports center started in 1952?
In 2005, in order to host The 10th National Game of People's Republic of China, there was a new stadium, Nanjing Olympic Sports Center, constructed in Nanjing	When was the Nanjing Olympic Sports Center built?
On 10 February 2010, the 122nd IOC session at Vancouver announced Nanjing as the host city for the 2nd Summer Youth Olympic Games	When was Nanjing announced as the host city for the 2nd Summer Youth Olympic Games?
Nanjing is one of the most beautiful cities of mainland China with lush green parks, natural scenic lakes, small mountains, historical buildings and monuments, relics and much more, which attracts thousands of tourists every year	Nanjing is considered one of the most pretty cities in what region?
Because it was designated as the national capital, many structures were built around that time	What was the designation of Nanjing?
Nanjing has been the educational centre in southern China for more than 1700 years	How long has Nanjing been considered the education hub of southern China?
It was founded in 1987 by Jim Foster, making it the third longest-running professional football league in North America, after the Canadian Football League and the National Football League	Who was the founder of the Arena Football League?
For its 2015 season, the league consisted of 12 teams, all from the United States; however, upon the completion of the regular season, the league announced that the two teams it had assumed operation of during the season would cease all operations effective immediately; a regular season game slated between the two had previously been canceled and declared a tie	How many teams played in the Arena Football League in the 2015 season?
The 2016 regular season consists of an 18-week schedule during which each team plays 16 games and two bye weeks	As of 2016, how many regular season games does an AFL team play?
From 2000 to 2009, the AFL had its own developmental league, the af2	What was the name of the AFL development league?
Jim Foster, a promotions manager with the National Football League, conceived of indoor football while watching an indoor soccer match at Madison Square Garden in 1981	Who was Jim Foster's employer prior to his founding the Arena Football League?
Plans for arena football were put on hold in 1982 as the United States Football League was launched	What football league began in 1982?
The test game was played in Rockford, Illinois, at the Rockford MetroCentre	In what city and state did the arena football test game take place?
He founded the Arena Football League with four teams: the Pittsburgh Gladiators, Denver Dynamite, Washington Commandos, and Chicago Bruisers	How many teams did the Arena Football League originally have?
The first game in Arena Football League history was played on June 19, 1987, between the Gladiators and Commandos at Pittsburgh Civic Arena in front of 12,117 fans	On what date was the inaugural game of the AFL played?
On September 30, 1987, Foster filed an application with the United States Patent and Trademark Office to patent his invented sport	On what date did Foster apply for a patent on arena football?
From the 1987 season until the late 1990s, the most exposure the league would receive was on ESPN, which aired tape-delayed games, often well after midnight, and often edited to match the alloted time slot	In 1987, what television station sometimes showed arena football games?
On Saturday, July 23, 1989, much of America learned of the AFL for an unintended reason, when the Pittsburgh Gladiators' head coach, Joe Haering, made football history by punching commissioner Jim Foster during a game with the Chicago Bruisers	Who was the coach of the Pittsburgh Gladiators in 1989?
One of the league's early success stories was the Detroit Drive	What team did Art Schlichter play for?
"Although the Drive moved to Massachusetts for the 1994 season, the AFL had a number of other teams which it considered ""dynasties"", including the Tampa Bay Storm , their arch-rival the Orlando Predators, the now-defunct San Jose SaberCats of the present decade, and their rivals the Arizona Rattlers"	Where did the Drive franchise relocate to?
In 1993, the league staged its first All-Star Game in Des Moines, Iowa, the future home of the long-running Iowa Barnstormers, as a fundraiser for flood victims in the area	What notable event in the AFL first occurred in 1993?
There are a number of franchises which existed in the form of a number of largely-unrelated teams under numerous management groups until they folded 	What team did the New York CityHawks become after moving to Hartford?
Louis Rams quarterback Kurt Warner, who was MVP of Super Bowl XXXIV, was first noticed because he played quarterback for the AFL's Iowa Barnstormers	What AFL team did Kurt Warner play for?
In 2003, the season expanded to 16 games	How many games made up the AFL season in 2003?
After 12 years as commissioner of the AFL, David Baker retired unexpectedly on July 25, 2008, just two days before ArenaBowl XXII; deputy commissioner Ed Policy was named interim commissioner until Baker's replacement was found	Who was the commissioner of the Arena Football League for the first half of 2008?
"In October 2008, Tom Benson announced that the New Orleans VooDoo were ceasing operations and folding ""based on circumstances currently affecting the league and the team"""	What team shut down in October 2008?
Dates were eventually announced as December 2 for the dispersal draft and December 4 for free agency, but shortly before the draft the league issued a press release announcing the draft had been postponed one day to December 3	On what date was the dispersal draft first scheduled to occur?
"Although the Arenafootball2 league played its tenth season in 2009, a conference call in December 2008 resulted in enough votes from owners and cooperation from the AFLPA for the AFL to suspend the entire 2009 season in order to create ""a long-term plan to improve its economic model"""	What numbered season did Arenafootball2 in 2009?
High hopes for the AFL waned when interim commissioner Ed Policy announced his resignation, citing the obsolescence of his position in the reformatted league	What was the job title of Ed Policy?
On July 20, 2009, Sports Business Journal reported that the AFL owed approximately $14 million to its creditors and were considering filing for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection	On what date was it reported that the AFL was considering bankruptcy?
That league was formally considered disbanded on September 8, 2009, when no owner committed his or her team to the league's eleventh season by that deadline	On what date was af2 regarded as disbanded?
The lone exception was that of the Dallas Desperados; Desperados owner Jerry Jones had purposely designed the Desperados' properties around those of the Dallas Cowboys, making the two inseparable	Who owned the Dallas Desperados?
"On February 17, 2010, AF1 announced it would use the ""Arena Football League"" name"	On what date did AF1 announce that it would be called the Arena Football League?
For the 2011 season, the Philadelphia Soul, Kansas City Brigade, San Jose SaberCats, New Orleans VooDoo, and the Georgia Force returned to the AFL after having last played in 2008	Along with the New Orleans VooDoo, Kansas City Brigade, Philadelphia Soul and Georgia Force, what former team returned for the 2011 season?
In 2012, the AFL celebrated its silver anniversary for its 25th season of operations	What anniversary did the Arena Football League celebrate in 2012?
It was announced on December 12, 2012, that the AFL reached a partnership agreement with NET10 Wireless to be the first non-motorsports-related professional sports league in the United States to have a title sponsor, renaming it the NET10 Wireless Arena Football League	On what date did the AFL announce its title sponsorship deal?
In 2013, the league expanded with the addition of two new franchises to play in 2014, the Los Angeles Kiss and the Portland Thunder	What was the name of the Los Angeles-based team added in 2013?
In 2014, the league announced the granting of a new franchise to former Mötley Crüe frontman Vince Neil, previously part-owner of the Jacksonville Sharks	What band was Vince Neil a part of?
Jerry Kurz also stepped down as commissioner of the AFL as he was promoted to be the AFL's first president	Who was the first president of the AFL?
On August 9, 2015, ESPN reported that the New Orleans VooDoo and Las Vegas Outlaws had ceased operations, effective immediately, a claim which was subsequently validated on the AFL website	On what date was it reported that the Las Vegas Outlaws were shutting down?
"An expected ""big announcement"" on Friday, October 30 at a San Antonio Spurs game never came to fruition"	What day of the week was October 30, 2015?
"On November 12, the league announced the defending champion San Jose SaberCats would be ceasing operations due to ""reasons unrelated to League operations"""	Who were the defending champions of the Arena Football League?
"On January 6, 2016, the league took over ""ownership and operational control"" of the Portland Thunder from its previous owners"	On what date did the AFL take control of one of its teams?
"The league's 2016 schedule, announced on the league's website on December 10, 2015, shows an eight-team league playing a 16-game regular season over 18 weeks, with two bye weeks for each team, one on a rotational basis and the other a ""universal bye"" for all teams during the Independence Day weekend, the first weekend in July"	On what date did the league announce its schedule for 2016?
The AFL then switched to a neutral-site championship, with ArenaBowls XIX and XX in Las Vegas	Where did ArenaBowl XX take place?
The practice of playing one or two preseason exhibition games by each team before the start of the regular season was discontinued when the NBC contract was initiated, and the regular season was extended from 14 games, the length that it had been since 1996, to 16 from 2001 to 2010, and since 2016	A contract with what television network led to the discontinuation of exhibition games in the preseason?
In August 2012, the AFL announced a new project into China, known as the China American Football League	What league did the AFL found in China?
Judge, founder and owner of the Judge Group	What company is Martin Judge the founder of?
The 2014 scheduled beginning proved to be too ambitious for the group; its official website now cites an anticipated beginning of professional play in 2016 and shows photos from a six-team collegiate tournament staged in early November, 2015	When does the CAFL plan on start its first season?
In conjunction with this, the league moved the beginning of the season from May to February and scheduled most of its games on Sunday instead of Friday or Saturday as it had in the past	In what month did the AFL season originally begin?
On December 19, 2006, ESPN announced the purchase of a minority stake in the AFL	On what date did ESPN buy a minority share of the AFL?
In some areas, such as with the Arizona Rattlers, Fox Sports affiliates still carry the games	Affiliates of what network broadcast Arizona Rattlers games?
After its return in 2010, the AFL had its national television deal with the NFL Network for a weekly Friday night game	After a hiatus, in what year did the AFL begin operations again?
The NFL Network ceased airing Arena Football League games partway through the 2012 season as a result of ongoing labor problems within the league	In what year did AFL games temporarily cease to be broadcast on NFL Network?
For the 2013 season, the league's new national broadcast partner was the CBS Sports Network	Who was the AFL's 2013 national broadcast partner?
Starting in 2014, ESPN returned to the AFL as broadcast partners, with weekly games being shown on CBS Sports Network, ESPN, ESPN2, ESPNEWS along with all games being broadcast on ESPN3 for free live on WatchESPN	Who was the Arena Football League's 2014 broadcast partner?
The first video game based on the AFL was Arena Football for the C-64 released in 1988	What was the first Arena Football League video game?
In 2001, Jeff Foley published War on the Floor: An Average Guy Plays in the Arena Football League and Lives to Write About It	Who wrote War on the Floor: An Average Guy Plays in the Arena Football League and Lives to Write About It?
The single-entity model was adopted in 2010 when the league emerged from bankruptcy	In what year did the AFL begin operating under the single-entity model?
Average attendance for AFL games were around 10,000–11,000 per game in the 1990s, though during the recession connected to the dot-com bubble and the September 11, 2001 attacks average attendance dropped below 10,000 for several years	What was the normal per game attendance of AFL games in the 1990s?
In 2010, the first year of the reconstituted league following bankruptcy, the overall attendance average decreased to 8,135, with only one team exceeding 13,000 per game	What was the AFL's average per-game attendance in 2010?
The term dialect is used in two distinct ways to refer to two different types of linguistic phenomena	What language is the word dialectus from?
One usage—the more common among linguists—refers to a variety of a language that is a characteristic of a particular group of the language's speakers	What is the common definition of dialect?
The other usage refers to a language that is socially subordinated to a regional or national standard language, often historically cognate or related to the standard language, but not actually derived from it	What is the other definition of the term dialect?
A dialect is distinguished by its vocabulary, grammar, and pronunciation 	Along with grammar and pronunciation, what distinguishes a dialect?
A standard dialect is a dialect that is supported by institutions	What is another term for a standard or standardized dialect?
A nonstandard dialect, like a standard dialect, has a complete vocabulary, grammar, and syntax, but is usually not the beneficiary of institutional support	What does a nonstandard dialect usually not have compared to a standard dialect?
This creole is spoken in the Caribbean coast of Costa Rica by descendant of Jamaican people	In what country is Limón Creole English spoken?
The most common, and most purely linguistic, criterion is that of mutual intelligibility: two varieties are said to be dialects of the same language if being a speaker of one variety confers sufficient knowledge to understand and be understood by a speaker of the other; otherwise, they are said to be different languages	What trait is the most common way of determining if languages are dialects?
Another occasionally used criterion for discriminating dialects from languages is that of linguistic authority, a more sociolinguistic notion	What term refers to another way in which dialects are distinguished from languages?
"By the definition most commonly used by linguists, any linguistic variety can be considered a ""dialect"" of some language—""everybody speaks a dialect"""	According to most linguistics, who speaks a dialect?
A framework was developed in 1967 by Heinz Kloss, abstand and ausbau languages, to describe speech communities, that while unified politically and/or culturally, include multiple dialects which though closely related genetically may be divergent to the point of inter-dialect unintelligibility	Who developed the abstand and ausbau languages framework?
"The terms ""language"" and ""dialect"" are not necessarily mutually exclusive: There is nothing contradictory in the statement ""the language of the Pennsylvania Dutch is a dialect of German"""	The language of the Pennsylvania Dutch is a dialect of what language?
"A more general term is ""languoid"", which does not distinguish between dialects, languages, and groups of languages, whether genealogically related or not"	What term avoids distinguishing between languages and dialects?
"In many societies, however, a particular dialect, often the sociolect of the elite class, comes to be identified as the ""standard"" or ""proper"" version of a language by those seeking to make a social distinction, and is contrasted with other varieties"	With what social class it the standard dialect commonly associated?
"The status of ""language"" is not solely determined by linguistic criteria, but it is also the result of a historical and political development"	What non-linguistic developments influence the status of a language?
"Modern Nationalism, as developed especially since the French Revolution, has made the distinction between ""language"" and ""dialect"" an issue of great political importance"	What event is regarded as a landmark in the development of modern nationalism?
The Yiddish linguist Max Weinreich published the expression, A shprakh iz a dialekt mit an armey un flot in YIVO Bleter 25	Max Weinreich is a linguist of what language?
When talking about the German language, the term German dialects is only used for the traditional regional varieties	When is the term 'German dialects' used in regard to the German language?
German dialectology traditionally names the major dialect groups after Germanic tribes from which they were assumed to have descended	After what entities are German dialects traditionally named?
The extent to which the dialects are spoken varies according to a number of factors: In Northern Germany, dialects are less common than in the South	In what geographic part of Germany are dialects more common?
The Swiss German dialects are the default everyday language in virtually every situation, whereas standard German is seldom spoken	What dialect of German is spoken in Switzerland?
This is different from the situation in the Middle Ages when Low German had strong tendencies towards an ausbau language	What type of language was Low German in the Middle Ages?
"These regional languages are often referred to colloquially or in non-linguistic circles as Italian ""dialects,"" or dialetti "	What are Italian dialects termed in the Italian language?
"In addition to having evolved, for the most part, separately from one another and with distinct individual histories, the Latin-based regional Romance languages of Italy are also better classified as separate languages rather than true ""dialects"" due to the often high degree in which they lack mutual intelligibility"	What is a major reason why the Latin-based regional Romance languages of Italy should be regarded as independent languages rather than dialects of each other?
Modern standard Italian itself is heavily based on the Latin-derived Florentine Tuscan language	What language is modern standard Italian derived from?
During the Risorgimento, proponents of Italian republicanism and Italian nationalism, such as Alessandro Manzoni, stressed the importance of establishing a uniform national language in order to better create an Italian national identity	What Italian nationalist spoke of the importance of a national Italian language?
In the early 20th century, the vast conscription of Italian men from all throughout Italy during World War I is credited with facilitating the diffusion of standard Italian among less educated Italian men, as these men from various regions with various regional languages were forced to communicate with each other in a common tongue while serving in the Italian military	During what war did a large number of Italian men first learn standard Italian?
Italians in different regions today may also speak regional varieties of standard Italian, or regional Italian dialects, which, unlike the majority of languages of Italy, are actually dialects of standard Italian rather than separate languages	Regional Italian dialects are often influenced by regional languages and what other language?
The languages of Italy are primarily Latin-based Romance languages, with the most widely spoken languages falling within the Italo-Dalmatian language family	What language family do most of the languages of Italy belong to?
The Sardinian language is considered to be its own Romance language family, separate not only from standard Italian but also the wider Italo-Dalmatian family, and it includes the Campidanese Sardinian and Logudorese Sardinian variants	Campidanese Sardinian is a variant of what language?
English and Serbo-Croatian each have two major variants , along with numerous other varieties	Along with British English, what is the major variant of the English language?
Macedonian, although mutually intelligible with Bulgarian, certain dialects of Serbian and to a lesser extent the rest of the South Slavic dialect continuum, is considered by Bulgarian linguists to be a Bulgarian dialect, in contrast with the contemporary international view and the view in the Republic of Macedonia, which regards it as a language in its own right	Along with Serbian, with what language is Macedonian mutually intelligible?
"In Lebanon, a part of the Christian population considers ""Lebanese"" to be in some sense a distinct language from Arabic and not merely a dialect"	Lebanese people of what religion sometimes consider Lebanese to be a distinct language?
In Tunisia, Algeria, and Morocco, the Darijas are sometimes considered more different from other Arabic dialects	Along with Morocco and Tunisia, in what country are the Darijas spoken?
In the 19th century, the Tsarist Government of the Russian Empire claimed that Ukrainian was merely a dialect of Russian and not a language on its own	During what century did the Russian government claim that Ukrainian was a Russian dialect?
The German Empire conquered Ukraine during World War I and was planning on either annexing it or installing a puppet king, but was defeated by the Entente, with major involvement by the Ukrainian Bolsheviks	What nation conquered Ukraine during the First World War?
After World War II, due to Ukrainian collaborationism with the Axis powers in an attempt to gain independence, Moscow changed its policy towards repression of the Ukrainian language	After what war did Moscow begin to repress the Ukrainian language?
Today the boundaries of the Ukrainian language to the Russian language are still not drawn clearly, with an intermediate dialect between them, called Surzhyk, developing in Ukraine	In what country is the Surzhyk dialect spoken?
"In 1996, the Moldovan parliament, citing fears of ""Romanian expansionism"", rejected a proposal from President Mircea Snegur to change the name of the language to Romanian, and in 2003 a Moldovan–Romanian dictionary was published, purporting to show that the two countries speak different languages"	Who was the president of Moldova in 1996?
Unlike most languages that use alphabets to indicate the pronunciation, Chinese characters have developed from logograms that do not always give hints to its pronunciation	From what did Chinese characters derive?
 This point of view sees the modern Romance languages as dialects of Latin, modern Greek as a dialect of Ancient Greek, Tok Pisin as a dialect of English, and North Germanic as dialects of Old Norse	From the perspective of historical linguists, what are Romance languages dialects of?
In one opinion, this pattern is clearly present among the modern Romance languages, with Italian and Spanish having a high degree of mutual comprehensibility, which neither language shares with French, despite some claiming that both languages are genetically closer to French than to each other: In fact, French-Italian and French-Spanish relative mutual incomprehensibility is due to French having undergone more rapid and more pervasive phonological change than have Spanish and Italian, not to real or imagined distance in genetic relationship	Italian is significantly mutually comprehensible with what other Romance language?
"Italian ""avere"" and ""essere"" as auxiliaries for forming compound tenses are used similarly to French ""avoir"" and ""être"""	"What Italian word is similar to the French word ""avoir""?"
One language, Interlingua, was developed so that the languages of Western civilization would act as its dialects	What language could all Western languages be considered dialects of?
The city of Bern or Berne ; French: Berne ; Italian: Berna ; Romansh: Berna ; Bernese German: Bärn ) is the de facto capital of Switzerland, referred to by the Swiss as their (e	Where is Bern located? 
The official language of Bern is German, but the main spoken language is the Alemannic Swiss German dialect called Bernese German	What is the official language of Bern?
In 1983 the historic old town in the centre of Bern became a UNESCO World Heritage Site	Where is the UNESCO World Heritage Site?
According to the local legend, based on folk etymology, Berchtold V, Duke of Zähringen, the founder of the city of Bern, vowed to name the city after the first animal he met on the hunt, and this turned out to be a bear	What animal is on the seal and coat of arms of Bern?
No archaeological evidence that indicates a settlement on the site of today′s city centre prior to the 12th century has been found so far	When was the earliest evidnce of settlement in the city centre?
The medieval city is a foundation of the Zähringer ruling family, which rose to power in Upper Burgundy in the 12th century	The medieval city is a foundation of what family?
In 1353 Bern joined the Swiss Confederacy, becoming one of the eight cantons of the formative period of 1353 to 1481	what year did Bern join the Swiss Confederacy?
8	How many cantons were there between 1353 to 1481?
The city grew out towards the west of the boundaries of the peninsula formed by the River Aare	What river was the city near?
After a major blaze in 1405, the city's original wooden buildings were gradually replaced by half-timbered houses and subsequently the sandstone buildings which came to be characteristic for the Old Town	What year was there a huge fire?
Bern was occupied by French troops in 1798 during the French Revolutionary Wars, when it was stripped of parts of its territories	What year was Bern occupied by French troops?
A number of congresses of the socialist First and Second Internationals were held in Bern, particularly during World War I when Switzerland was neutral; see Bern International	What congresses were held in Bern?
As of October 2015, the resident population stood at 140,634, of which 100,634 were Swiss citizens and 40,000 resident foreigners	What percent of the populatin of Bern resident foreigners?
Bern lies on the Swiss plateau in the Canton of Bern, slightly west of the centre of Switzerland and 20 km north of the Bernese Alps	Where is Bern located?
The city was originally built on a hilly peninsula surrounded by the River Aare, but outgrew natural boundaries by the 19th century	What peninsula is Bern located on?
There is an elevation difference of several metres between the inner city districts on the Aare and the higher ones 	What is the elevation difference between the inner cities and the other cities?
6% is forested	What is 33.6% of the land in Bern?
It is composed of five councilors , each presiding over a directorate comprising several departments and bureaus	How many councilors are there?
The Liberals), giving the left parties a majority of three out of five seats	Who has the majority of the seats in Bern's City Council?
The City Parliament holds legislative power	Who holds the legislative power?
The sessions of the City Parliament are public	Are the sessions of City Parliament private or public?
This gives the left parties an absolute majority of 46 seats	Which party has the absolute majority of the seats?
Bern has a population of 140,634 people and 34% of the population are resident foreign nationals	What is the population of Bern?
Most of the population ) speaks German (104,465 or 81	What is the main lanuage of Bern?
The city council of the city of Bern decided against having twinned cities except for a temporary cooperation with the Austrian city Salzburg	What did the city decide again?
1% of the population, while adults make up 65% and seniors make up 19	What percent of the population are between 20-64?
As of 2000, there were 59,948 people who were single and never married in the municipality	How many people were single in Bern in 2000?
There were 34,981 households that consist of only one person and 1,592 households with five or more people	How many households have 5 or more people living in them?
25% of the population) who were Jewish, and 4,907 (or about 3	How many muslims were there in Bern in 2000?
The structure of Bern's city centre is largely medieval and has been recognised by UNESCO as a Cultural World Heritage Site	The structure of Bern's city centre is mainly what type of buildings?
Since the 16th century, the city has had a bear pit, the Bärengraben, at the far end of the Nydeggbrücke to house its heraldic animals	What is the Barengraben?
The Federal Palace , built from 1857 to 1902, which houses the national parliament, government and part of the federal administration, can also be visited	Where is the national parliment housed?
Albert Einstein lived in a flat at the Kramgasse 49, the site of the Einsteinhaus, from 1903 to 1905, the year in which the Annus Mirabilis Papers were published	Where is Albert Einstein live?
The Rose Garden , from which a scenic panoramic view of the medieval town centre can be enjoyed, is a well-kept Rosarium on a hill, converted into a park from a former cemetery in 1913	What is the Rose Garden also known as?
There are eleven Renaissance allegorical statues on public fountains in the Old Town	Where are the statues at in the Old Town?
It includes the entire Old Town, which is also a UNESCO World Heritage Site, and many sites within and around it	What does the UNESCO consider the entre Old Town?
, English) with German and French subtitles	What subtitles are included in the movies?
Bern was the site of the 1954 Football World Cup Final, a huge upset for the Hungarian Golden Team, who were beaten 3–2 by West Germany	What year was the Football World Cup Final in Bern?
SC Bern is the major ice hockey team of Bern who plays at the PostFinance Arena	What is the major hockey league team of Bern?
Bern was a candidate to host the 2010 Winter Olympics, but withdrew its bid in September 2002 after a referendum was passed that showed that the bid was not supported by locals	What year did Bern want to host the Winter Olympics?
As of 2008, there were 259 people employed in the primary economic sector and about 59 businesses involved in this sector	How many businesses are there in the primary sector?
The number of jobs in the primary sector was 203, of which 184 were in agriculture and 19 were in forestry or lumber production	How many jobs in the primary sector were agrictulture?
In 2000, there were 94,367 workers who commuted into the municipality and 16,424 workers who commuted away	How many workers commute into the municipality?
The University of Bern, whose buildings are mainly located in the Länggasse quarter, is located in Bern, as well as the University of Applied Sciences and several vocations schools	Where are the majority of the buildings for the University of Bern?
6% were Swiss men, 33	The majority of the population to finish tertiary schooling in bern are what people?
The Canton of Bern school system provides one year of non-obligatory kindergarten, followed by six years of primary school	Do you have to go to the one year of kindergarten?
During the 2009–10 school year, there were a total of 10,979 pupils attending classes in Bern	How many students were attending school during the 2009-2010 school year?
Bern is home to 8 libraries	How many libraries are in Bern?
As of 2000, there were 9,045 pupils in Bern who came from another municipality, while 1,185 residents attended schools outside the municipality	How many pupils lived in another municipality?
A funicular railway leads from the Marzili district to the Bundeshaus	What connects Marzili to Bundeshaus?
Bern is also served by Bern Airport, located outside the city near the town of Belp	What is the name of Bern's airport?
Westminster Abbey, formally titled the Collegiate Church of St Peter at Westminster, is a large, mainly Gothic abbey church in the City of Westminster, London, located just to the west of the Palace of Westminster	What is the formal name of Westminster Abbey?
According to a tradition first reported by Sulcard in about 1080, a church was founded at the site ) in the 7th century, at the time of Mellitus, a Bishop of London	What is the meaning of Thorn Ey?
Since 1066, when Harold Godwinson and William the Conqueror were crowned, the coronations of English and British monarchs have been held there	Who were the first monarchs crowned at Westminster Abbey?
The first reports of the abbey are based on a late tradition claiming that a young fisherman called Aldrich on the River Thames saw a vision of Saint Peter near the site	Who supposedly had a vison of Saint Peter on the River Thames?
Between 1042 and 1052 King Edward the Confessor began rebuilding St Peter's Abbey to provide himself with a royal burial church	Who rebuilt the abbey for a burial church?
The only extant depiction of Edward's abbey, together with the adjacent Palace of Westminster, is in the Bayeux Tapestry	Where is the only existant depiction of Edward's abbey?
The abbot and monks, in proximity to the royal Palace of Westminster, the seat of government from the later 12th century, became a powerful force in the centuries after the Norman Conquest	Who became a powerful force after the Norman Conquest?
The abbot remained Lord of the Manor of Westminster as a town of two to three thousand persons grew around it: as a consumer and employer on a grand scale the monastery helped fuel the town economy, and relations with the town remained unusually cordial, but no enfranchising charter was issued during the Middle Ages	What did the abbot remain as a town built around the abbey?
The abbey became the coronation site of Norman kings	What was the abbey to Norman kings?
Henry VII added a Perpendicular style chapel dedicated to the Blessed Virgin Mary in 1503 	Who added a Perpendicular style chapel?
In 1535, the abbey's annual income of £2400–2800 , during the assessment attendant on the Dissolution of the Monasteries rendered it second in wealth only to Glastonbury Abbey	When was the abbey's annual income £2400–2800?
Henry VIII assumed direct royal control in 1539 and granted the abbey the status of a cathedral by charter in 1540, simultaneously issuing letters patent establishing the Diocese of Westminster	When did Henry VIII take direct royal control?
Westminster diocese was dissolved in 1550, but the abbey was recognised as a second cathedral of the Diocese of London until 1556	When was Westminster Diocese dissolved?
The abbey was restored to the Benedictines under the Catholic Mary I of England, but they were again ejected under Elizabeth I in 1559	The abbey was regiven to the Benedictines under whom?
It suffered damage during the turbulent 1640s, when it was attacked by Puritan iconoclasts, but was again protected by its close ties to the state during the Commonwealth period	When did the abbey suffer damage?
The abbey's two western towers were built between 1722 and 1745 by Nicholas Hawksmoor, constructed from Portland stone to an early example of a Gothic Revival design	When were the western towers built?
A narthex for the west front was designed by Sir Edwin Lutyens in the mid-20th century but was not built	What was designed for the west front of the abbey but not built?
Until the 19th century, Westminster was the third seat of learning in England, after Oxford and Cambridge	Westminster Abbey was the third highest place of learning after which two places?
In the 1990s two icons by the Russian icon painter Sergei Fyodorov were hung in the abbey	Who painted the icons hung in the abbey in the 1990s?
In 1216, Henry III was unable to be crowned in London when he first came to the throne, because the French prince Louis had taken control of the city, and so the king was crowned in Gloucester Cathedral	Where was Henry III crowned?
King Edward's Chair , the throne on which English and British sovereigns have been seated at the moment of coronation, is housed within the abbey and has been used at every coronation since 1308	What is the name of the throne used for coronation?
Westminster Abbey is a collegiate church governed by the Dean and Chapter of Westminster, as established by Royal charter of Queen Elizabeth I in 1560, which created it as the Collegiate Church of St Peter Westminster and a Royal Peculiar under the personal jurisdiction of the Sovereign	What kind of church is Westminster Abbey?
Together with the clergy and Receiver General and Chapter Clerk, various lay officers constitute the college, including the Organist and Master of the Choristers, the Registrar, the Auditor, the Legal Secretary, the Surveyor of the Fabric, the Head Master of the choir school, the Keeper of the Muniments and the Clerk of the Works, as well as 12 lay vicars, 10 choristers and the High Steward and High Bailiff	How many lay vicars are there?
Henry III rebuilt the abbey in honour of a royal saint, Edward the Confessor, whose relics were placed in a shrine in the sanctuary	Henry III rebuilt the abbey in honour of whom?
From the Middle Ages, aristocrats were buried inside chapels, while monks and other people associated with the abbey were buried in the cloisters and other areas	Where were aristocrats buried from the Middle Ages?
The practice of burying national figures in the abbey began under Oliver Cromwell with the burial of Admiral Robert Blake in 1657	Oliver Cromwell began buring national figures in the abbey starting with whom?
During the early 20th century it became increasingly common to bury cremated remains rather than coffins in the abbey	In the early 20th century it became more common to bury what kind of remains?
He was buried in the abbey on 11 November 1920	When was The Unknown Warrior buried?
At the east end of the Lady Chapel is a memorial chapel to the airmen of the RAF who were killed in the Second World War	Where is the memorial chapel of the airmen of the RAF?
"On Saturday September 6, 1997 the formal, though not ""state"" Funeral of Diana, Princess of Wales, was held"	When was the formal funeral of Diana, Princess of Wales?
Westminster School and Westminster Abbey Choir School are also in the precincts of the abbey	What are also in the precincts of Westminster Abbey?
The organ was built by Harrison & Harrison in 1937, then with four manuals and 84 speaking stops, and was used for the first time at the coronation of King George VI	Who built the organ?
One part of the instrument, the Celestial Organ, is currently not connected or playable	What part of the organ is not connected or playable?
The bells at the abbey were overhauled in 1971	When were the bells overhauled?
In addition there are two service bells, cast by Robert Mot, in 1585 and 1598 respectively, a Sanctus bell cast in 1738 by Richard Phelps and Thomas Lester and two unused bells—one cast about 1320, by the successor to R de Wymbish, and a second cast in 1742, by Thomas Lester	Who cast the two service bells?
The chapter house was built concurrently with the east parts of the abbey under Henry III, between about 1245 and 1253	Under whom was the chapter house built?
It is built in a Geometrical Gothic style with an octagonal crypt below	What style is the octagonal chapter house?
The chapter house has an original mid-13th-century tiled pavement	What kind of tiled pavement is in the chapter house?
The Pyx Chamber formed the undercroft of the monks' dormitory	What formed the undercroft of the monks' dormitory?
The chapter house and Pyx Chamber at Westminster Abbey are in the guardianship of English Heritage, but under the care and management of the Dean and Chapter of Westminster	The Pyx Chamber and chapter house are under guardianship of whom?
The Westminster Abbey Museum is located in the 11th-century vaulted undercroft beneath the former monks' dormitory in Westminster Abbey	What is located in the vaulted undercroft beneath the monks' dormitory?
The exhibits include a collection of royal and other funeral effigies , together with other treasures, including some panels of mediaeval glass, 12th-century sculpture fragments, Mary II's coronation chair and replicas of the coronation regalia, and historic effigies of Edward III, Henry VII and his queen, Elizabeth of York, Charles II, William III, Mary II and Queen Anne	What belonging to Henry V is in the museum?
Later wax effigies include a likeness of Horatio, Viscount Nelson, wearing some of his own clothes and another of Prime Minister William Pitt, Earl of Chatham, modelled by the American-born sculptor Patience Wright	Who modelled the effigies in the museum?
A recent addition to the exhibition is the late 13th-century Westminster Retable, England's oldest altarpiece, which was most probably designed for the high altar of the abbey	What was recently added to the museum exhibit?
In June 2009 the first major building work at the abbey for 250 years was proposed	What was proposed for the abbey in June 2009?
A project that is proceeding is the creation of The Queen's Diamond Jubilee Galleries in the medieval triforium of the abbey	What will be created in the medieval triforium?
Political corruption is the use of powers by government officials for illegitimate private gain	What is it called when government officials use their power for private gain?
Forms of corruption vary, but include bribery, extortion, cronyism, nepotism, gombeenism, parochialism patronage, influence peddling, graft, and embezzlement	One form of corruption involves the hiring of family members, which is called what?
Worldwide, bribery alone is estimated to involve over 1 trillion US dollars annually	Which crime costs over one trillion U.S. dollars every year, world-wide?
"Some forms of corruption – now called ""institutional corruption"" – are distinguished from bribery and other kinds of obvious personal gain"	What are some forms of corruption now called?
In politics, corruption undermines democracy and good governance by flouting or even subverting formal processes	What does corruption undermine in politics?
Corruption undermines the legitimacy of government and such democratic values as trust and tolerance	What two democratic values are soiled due to corruption?
In the private sector, corruption increases the cost of business through the price of illicit payments themselves, the management cost of negotiating with officials and the risk of breached agreements or detection	Corruption raises the cost of business because of illegal payments in what sector?
Corruption also generates economic distortion in the public sector by diverting public investment into capital projects where bribes and kickbacks are more plentiful	Economic distortion is created by corruption in the public sector by diverting what into capital projects?
Economists argue that one of the factors behind the differing economic development in Africa and Asia is that in Africa, corruption has primarily taken the form of rent extraction with the resulting financial capital moved overseas rather than invested at home 	African dictators often have what kind of bank accounts?
University of Massachusetts Amherst researchers estimated that from 1970 to 1996, capital flight from 30 Sub-Saharan countries totaled $187bn, exceeding those nations' external debts	Which researchers studied corruption from Sub-Saharan countries from 1970 to 1996?
Corruption is often most evident in countries with the smallest per capita incomes, relying on foreign aid for health services	Where is corruption most noticeable?
"Instead, the donated money was expended through ""counterfeit drugs, siphoning off of drugs to the black market, and payments to ghost employees"""	What kind of employees received payments?
Corruption facilitates environmental destruction	Corruption aids what as far as the environment is concerned?
"The Nobel Prize-winning economist Amartya Sen has observed that ""there is no such thing as an apolitical food problem"	Who has stated that apolitical food problems do not exist?
Governments with strong tendencies towards kleptocracy can undermine food security even when harvests are good	Even if a harvest is good, food security can be crippled when a government has tendencies toward what?
The scale of humanitarian aid to the poor and unstable regions of the world grows, but it is highly vulnerable to corruption, with food aid, construction and other highly valued assistance as the most at risk	Along with food aid, what is most at risk in these countries?
In construction and shelter there are numerous opportunities for diversion and profit through substandard workmanship, kickbacks for contracts and favouritism in the provision of valuable shelter material	Substandard what is often one way for corruption to enter the construction field?
These various manifestations of corruption can ultimately present a danger for the public health; they can discredit specific, essential institutions or social relationships	These types of corruption can harm what?
Corruption can also affect the various components of sports activities 	Corruption can determine certain things in what kind of activities?
Ultimately, the distinction between public and private sector corruption sometimes appears rather artificial, and national anti-corruption initiatives may need to avoid legal and other loopholes in the coverage of the instruments	The difference between corruption that is public or private looks like what?
In the context of political corruption, a bribe may involve a payment given to a government official in exchange of his use of official powers	What do you call paying government officials to use their position in their office?
] the international community has made efforts to encourage countries to dissociate active and passive bribery and to incriminate them as separate offences	What two types of bribery is the international community trying to get prosecuted as separate?
"In addition, there is often no such formal deal but only a mutual understanding, for instance when it is common knowledge in a municipality that to obtain a building permit one has to pay a ""fee"" to the decision maker to obtain a favorable decision"	In some countries there is no formal deal but what that makes prosecuting bribes difficult?
Trading in influence, or influence peddling, refers a person selling his/her influence over the decision making process to benefit a third party 	Selling or trading government position influence is called what?
Patronage refers to favoring supporters, for example with government employment	Giving government jobs to supporters is called what?
Favoring relatives or personal friends of an official is a form of illegitimate private gain	What is it called when relatives are favored over other people?
Seeking to harm enemies becomes corruption when official powers are illegitimately used as means to this end	Corruption also occurs when an official wants to cause some form of harm to who?
Gombeenism refers to an individual who is dishonest and corrupt for the purpose of personal gain, more often through monetary, while, parochialism which is also known as parish pump politics relates to placing local or vanity projects ahead of the national interest	What is it called when a person is dishonest or corrupt for his own gain?
Electoral fraud is illegal interference with the process of an election	Illegal interference with an election is called what?
Embezzlement is the theft of entrusted funds	When entrusted funds are stolen, it is called what?
A kickback is an official's share of misappropriated funds allocated from his or her organization to an organization involved in corrupt bidding	What is the public official's share called when involved in corrupt bidding?
Kickbacks are not limited to government officials; any situation in which people are entrusted to spend funds that do not belong to them are susceptible to this kind of corruption	What is not limited to just government officials?
An unholy alliance is a coalition among seemingly antagonistic groups for ad hoc or hidden gain, generally some influential non-governmental group forming ties with political parties, supplying funding in exchange for the favorable treatment	When groups that are antagonistic to each other form a coalition for hidden gain, it is called what?
An illustrative example of official involvement in organized crime can be found from 1920s and 1930s Shanghai, where Huang Jinrong was a police chief in the French concession, while simultaneously being a gang boss and co-operating with Du Yuesheng, the local gang ringleader	When was Jinrong a police chief in this area?
"The United States accused Manuel Noriega's government in Panama of being a ""narcokleptocracy"", a corrupt government profiting on illegal drug trade"	What was Noriega's government accused of being?
There is no safe deposit 	According to Thomas Jefferson, when the media is free and people are literate they are what?
"Brunetti and Weder found ""evidence of a significant relationship between more press freedom and less corruption in a large cross-section of countries"	Who found evidence that where the media had freedom there was less political corruption?
"Snyder and Strömberg found ""that a poor fit between newspaper markets and political districts reduces press coverage of politics"	Who discovered the correlation that congressman who have less local press coverage work less for the people who elected them?
"An analysis of the evolution of mass media in the US and Europe since World War II noted mixed results from the growth of the Internet: ""The digital revolution has been good for freedom of expression information has had mixed effects on freedom of the press"": It has disrupted traditional sources of funding, and new forms of Internet journalism have replaced only a tiny fraction of what's been lost"	What did the analysis show mixed results for?
Transparency International currently publishes three measures, updated annually: a CPI ; a Global Corruption Barometer ; and a Bribe Payers Index, looking at the willingness of foreign firms to pay bribes	How many measures does Transparency International publish right now?
The World Bank collects a range of data on corruption, including survey responses from over 100,000 firms worldwide and a set of indicators of governance and institutional quality	How many firms throughout the world have been surveyed by the World Bank in regards to its corruption study?
A second wave of corruption metrics has been created by Global Integrity, the International Budget Partnership, and many lesser known local groups	A second set of corruption metrics has been compiled by Global Integrity and what other organization?
"Typical second wave corruption metrics do not offer the worldwide coverage found in first wave projects, and instead focus on localizing information gathered to specific problems and creating deep, ""unpackable"" content that matches quantitative and qualitative data"	The second wave of metrics focuses on what level of corruption?
Alternative approaches, such as the British aid agency's Drivers of Change research, skips numbers and promotes understanding corruption via political economy analysis of who controls power in a given society	What is the British aid agency's research called?
Extensive and diverse public spending is, in itself, inherently at risk of cronyism, kickbacks, and embezzlement	Public spending has risks of kickbacks, embezzlement and what?
Like other governmental economic activities, also privatization, such as in the sale of government-owned property, is particularly at the risk of cronyism	Selling government property is highly at risk for what?
In the European Union, the principle of subsidiarity is applied: a government service should be provided by the lowest, most local authority that can competently provide it	Providing a government service from the lowest form of local government that can adequately provide the service is called what?
If the highest echelons of the governments also take advantage from corruption or embezzlement from the state's treasury, it is sometimes referred with the neologism kleptocracy	What is it called when higher ups in government embezzle from the government's treasury?
In addition, corrupt dictators routinely ignore economic and social problems in their quest to amass ever more wealth and power	In their pursuit of more money and power, corrupt dictators often ignore what?
The classic case of a corrupt, exploitive dictator often given is the regime of Marshal Mobutu Sese Seko, who ruled the Democratic Republic of the Congo from 1965 to 1997	Who was the dictator in Zaire from 1965 to 1997?
"More recently, articles in various financial periodicals, most notably Forbes magazine, have pointed to Fidel Castro, General Secretary of the Republic of Cuba since 1959, of likely being the beneficiary of up to $900 million, based on ""his control"" of state-owned companies"	What magazine had articles about Castro benefiting from corruption?
Further conventions were adopted at the regional level under the aegis of the Organization of American States , the African Union, and in 2003, at the universal level under that of the United Nations Convention against Corruption	What is OAS?
Measuring corruption statistically is difficult if not impossible due to the illicit nature of the transaction and imprecise definitions of corruption	Why is it difficult to measure corruption?
There are two methods of corruption of the judiciary: the state , and the private	How many methods of judiciary corruption are there?
Mobile telecommunications and radio broadcasting help to fight corruption, especially in developing regions like Africa, where other forms of communications are limited	Radio broadcasts and what help deter corruption?
In the 1990s, initiatives were taken at an international level to put a ban on corruption: in 1996, the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe, for instance, adopted a comprehensive Programme of Action against Corruption and, subsequently, issued a series of anti-corruption standard-setting instruments:	What decade saw international initiatives to combat corruption?
To monitor the implementation at national level of the requirements and principles provided in those texts, a monitoring mechanism – the Group of States Against Corruption was created	What does GRECO stand for?
While a similar term is also used to refer to the period from 1750 to 1820 , this article is about the broad span of time from roughly the 11th century to the present day, which includes the Classical period and various other periods	What term is used to refer to the period from 1750 to 1820?
European art music is largely distinguished from many other non-European and popular musical forms by its system of staff notation, in use since about the 16th century	How is European art music distinguished from non-European and popular music?
"The term ""classical music"" did not appear until the early 19th century, in an attempt to distinctly canonize the period from Johann Sebastian Bach to Beethoven as a golden age"	"When did the term ""classical music"" appear? "
Given the wide range of styles in classical music, from Medieval plainchant sung by monks to Classical and Romantic symphonies for orchestra from the 1700s and 1800s to avant-garde atonal compositions for solo piano from the 1900s, it is difficult to list characteristics that can be attributed to all works of that type	Who sang Medieval plainchant?
Bach's fugues, for instance, achieve a remarkable marriage of boldly distinctive melodic lines weaving in counterpoint yet creating a coherent harmonic logic that would be impossible in the heat of live improvisation	J.S. Bach's fugues create a coherent harmonic logic that would be impossible for what other style of music?
That said, the score does not provide complete and exact instructions on how to perform a historical work	The score does not provide complete and exact instruction on how to do what?
Although Classical music in the 2000s has lost most of its tradition for musical improvisation, from the Baroque era to the Romantic era, there are examples of performers who could improvise in the style of their era	Classical music in the 2000s has lost most of its tradition for musical what?
The instruments currently used in most classical music were largely invented before the mid-19th century and codified in the 18th and 19th centuries	Instrument currently used in most classical music where invented before what period?
Medieval instruments included the wood flute , the recorder and plucked string instruments like the lute	What was the medieval flute made from?
During the earlier medieval period, the vocal music from the liturgical genre, predominantly Gregorian chant, was monophonic, using a single, unaccompanied vocal melody line	What genre was predominately Gregorian chant during the earlier medieval period?
Many instruments originated during the Renaissance; others were variations of, or improvements upon, instruments that had existed previously	Many instruments originated during what era?
Brass instruments in the Renaissance were traditionally played by professionals who were members of Guilds and they included the slide trumpet, the wooden cornet, the valveless trumpet and the sackbut	Brass instruments were traditionally played by profession guild members during what era?
Vocal music in the Renaissance is noted for the flourishing of an increasingly elaborate polyphonic style	Vocal music in the Renaissance is noted for an increasingly elaborate what?
Baroque instruments included some instruments from the earlier periods (e	The cello, contrabrass and fortepiano were new instruments during what period?
One major difference between Baroque music and the classical era that followed it is that the types of instruments used in ensembles were much less standardized	What was less standardized during the Baroque era?
"The term ""classical music"" has two meanings: the broader meaning includes all Western art music from the Medieval era to today, and the specific meaning refers to the music from the 1750s to the early 1830s—the era of Mozart and Haydn"	From the 1750's to the early 1830's is the era of Mozart and what other composer?
Classical musicians continued to use many of instruments from the Baroque era, such as the cello, contrabass, recorder, trombone, timpani, fortepiano and organ	Classical musicians continued to use many instruments from what era?
The Classical era stringed instruments were the four instruments which form the string section of the orchestra: the violin, viola, cello and contrabass	The violin, cello, contrabass and what other instrument form the string section of the orchestra?
"The ""standard complement"" of double winds and brass in the orchestra from the first half of the 19th century is generally attributed to Beethoven"	"To whom is the ""standard complement"" attributed to?"
In the Romantic era, the modern piano, with a more powerful, sustained tone and a wider range took over from the more delicate-sounding fortepiano	What instrument did the modern piano take over for in the Romantic era?
Saxophones appear in some scores from the late 19th century onwards	When do saxophones first appear in scores?
The Wagner tuba, a modified member of the horn family, appears in Richard Wagner's cycle Der Ring des Nibelungen and several other works by Strauss, Béla Bartók, and others; it has a prominent role in Anton Bruckner's Symphony No	What is the name of the modified member of the horn family appearing in several works by Strauss?
Electric instruments such as the electric guitar, the electric bass and the ondes Martenot appear occasionally in the classical music of the 20th and 21st centuries	What type of instrument appears occasionally in the 20th and 21st century styles of classical music?
Many instruments today associated with popular music filled important roles in early classical music, such as bagpipes, vihuelas, hurdy-gurdies, and some woodwind instruments	In what did the bagpipe fill an important role?
While equal temperament became gradually accepted as the dominant musical temperament during the 18th century, different historical temperaments are often used for music from earlier periods	What type of temperament became accepted during the 18th century?
"Performers who have studied classical music extensively are said to be ""classically trained"""	What have classical trained performers done extensively?
Performance of classical music repertoire requires a proficiency in sight-reading and ensemble playing, harmonic principles, strong ear training , knowledge of performance practice (e	Performance of classical music requires proficiency in what type of reading?
"Some ""popular"" genre musicians have had significant classical training, such as Billy Joel, Elton John, the Van Halen brothers, Randy Rhoads and Ritchie Blackmore"	What brothers have had significant classical training?
Historically, major professional orchestras have been mostly or entirely composed of male musicians	What gender of musician has historically made up a large amount of professional orchestras?
"In 1997, the Vienna Philharmonic was ""facing protests during a tour"" by the National Organization for Women and the International Alliance for Women in Music"	In what year did the Vienna Philharmonic face protests in the US?
"In 2013, an article in Mother Jones stated that while ""any prestigious orchestras have significant female membership—women outnumber men in the New York Philharmonic's violin section—and several renowned ensembles, including the National Symphony Orchestra, the Detroit Symphony, and the Minnesota Symphony, are led by women violinists"", the double bass, brass, and percussion sections of major orchestras """	The National Symphony Orchestra is led by what gender of violinist?
Works of classical repertoire often exhibit complexity in their use of orchestration, counterpoint, harmony, musical development, rhythm, phrasing, texture, and form	Works of classical repertoire exhibit what in their use of orchestration and harmony, and form?
Longer works are often divided into self-contained pieces, called movements, often with contrasting characters or moods	What are self-contained pieces in longer works called?
The major time divisions of classical music up to 1900 are the early music period, which includes Medieval and Renaissance eras, and the Common practice period, which includes the Baroque , Classical and Romantic eras	What period was from 500-1400?
For example, the use of counterpoint and fugue, which is considered characteristic of the Baroque era , was continued by Haydn, who is classified as typical of the Classical era	What composer continued the counterpoint and fugue?
The prefix neo is used to describe a 20th-century or contemporary composition written in the style of an earlier era, such as Classical or Romantic	A Contemporary composition written in the style of an earlier era is described with what prefix?
Burgh , suggests that the roots of Western classical music ultimately lie in ancient Egyptian art music via cheironomy and the ancient Egyptian orchestra, which dates to 2695 BC	When does the Egyptian orchestra date to?
The Medieval period includes music from after the fall of Rome to about 1400	The Medieval period begins with the fall of what city?
The Renaissance era was from 1400 to 1600	When was the Renaissance era?
It is in this time that the notation of music on a staff and other elements of musical notation began to take shape	The notation of music on a what began to take shape at this time?
Typical stringed instruments of the early period include the harp, lute, vielle, and psaltery, while wind instruments included the flute family , shawm , trumpet, and the bagpipes	The record is part of what wind family?
The common practice period is when many of the ideas that make up western classical music took shape, standardized, or were codified	When did many of the ideas that make up western classical music take shape?
Baroque music is characterized by the use of complex tonal counterpoint and the use of a basso continuo, a continuous bass line	Basso continuo and complex tonal counterpoint characterize what type of music? 
During the Baroque era, keyboard music played on the harpsichord and pipe organ became increasingly popular, and the violin family of stringed instruments took the form generally seen today	Keyboard music became popular during what era?
The theories surrounding equal temperament began to be put in wider practice, especially as it enabled a wider range of chromatic possibilities in hard-to-tune keyboard instruments	What theories began to be put in wider practice?
The Classical era, from about 1750 to 1820, established many of the norms of composition, presentation, and style, and was also when the piano became the predominant keyboard instrument	When was the Classical era?
Wind instruments became more refined in the Classical era	What type of instrument became more refined during the classical era?
The music of the Romantic era, from roughly the first decade of the 19th century to the early 20th century, was characterized by increased attention to an extended melodic line, as well as expressive and emotional elements, paralleling romanticism in other art forms	Increased attention to extended melodic lines characterized what era?
In the 19th century, musical institutions emerged from the control of wealthy patrons, as composers and musicians could construct lives independent of the nobility	Who controlled musical institutions before the 19th century?
The size of the orchestra grew to be over 100	To what number did the size of the orchestra grow to?
European cultural ideas and institutions began to follow colonial expansion into other parts of the world	What did European cultural ideas follow?
Encompassing a wide variety of post-Romantic styles composed through the year 2000, 20th century classical music includes late romantic, modern, high-modern, and postmodern styles of composition	What style does 20th century classical music encompass?
Almost all of the composers who are described in music textbooks on classical music and whose works are widely performed as part of the standard concert repertoire are male composers, even though there has been a large number of women composers throughout the classical music period	What gender are most composers described in music textbooks?
The modernist views hold that classical music is considered primarily a written musical tradition, preserved in music notation, as opposed to being transmitted orally, by rote, or by recordings of particular performances	What type of view is that classical music is primarily written musical tradition?
The study showed that students who actively listen to classical music before studying had higher academic scores	Did student who actively listen to classical music before studying have higher or lower scores?
"During the 1990s, several research papers and popular books wrote on what came to be called the ""Mozart effect"": an observed temporary, small elevation of scores on certain tests as a result of listening to Mozart's works"	Which composer had an effect named after him?
Shawn Vancour argues that the commercialization of classical music in the early 20th century served to harm the music industry through inadequate representation	What harmed the music industry in the 20th century according to Shawn Vancour?
Several works from the Golden Age of Animation matched the action to classical music	Works from the Golden Age of music matches action to what?
Similarly, movies and television often revert to standard, clichéd snatches of classical music to convey refinement or opulence: some of the most-often heard pieces in this category include Bach´s Cello Suite No	What does classical music convey in movies and television?
The written score, however, does not usually contain explicit instructions as to how to interpret the piece in terms of production or performance, apart from directions for dynamics, tempo and expression 	What does the written score not usually contain explicitly? 
Some critics express the opinion that it is only from the mid-19th century, and especially in the 20th century, that the score began to hold such a high significance	Improvisation is integral before what took a high significance?
Improvisation once played an important role in classical music	What once played an important role in classical music?
Certain staples of classical music are often used commercially 	How are staples of classical music often used?
Composers of classical music have often made use of folk music 	Folk musicians are not commonly what?
Its written transmission, along with the veneration bestowed on certain classical works, has led to the expectation that performers will play a work in a way that realizes in detail the original intentions of the composer	How are performers expected to play a work due to written transmission?
Improvisation in classical music performance was common during both the Baroque and early romantic eras, yet lessened strongly during the second half of the 19th and in the 20th centuries	When was improvisation in classical music performance common?
Classical music has often incorporated elements or material from popular music of the composer's time	Popular music from the composer's time was incorporation into what?
Numerous examples show influence in the opposite direction, including popular songs based on classical music, the use to which Pachelbel's Canon has been put since the 1970s, and the musical crossover phenomenon, where classical musicians have achieved success in the popular music arena	Pachelbel's Canon has influenced popular songs since what decade?
 Presently over half of Europe's territory is inhabited by Slavic-speaking communities, but every Slavic ethnicity has emigrated to other continents	What portion of Europe's territory is inhabited by Slavic-speaking communities?
Present-day Slavic people are classified into West Slavic , East Slavic , and South Slavic , though sometimes the West Slavs and East Slavs are combined into a single group known as North Slavs	West Slavic people consist of which nationalities?
The Slavic autonym is reconstructed in Proto-Slavic as *Slověninъ, plural *Slověne	*Slověninъ, plural *Slověne, is the Slavic autonym reconstructed in what?
"by Roman Jakobson) a derivation from slovo ""word"", originally denoting ""people who speak ,"" i"	"What slavic word denotes ""people who speak the same language?"""
The word slovo and the related slava and slukh originate from the Proto-Indo-European root *ḱlew- , cognate with Ancient Greek κλῆς , whence the name Pericles, and Latin clueo , and English loud	Slovo, slava, and slukh all originate from what Proto-Indo-European root?
"The English word Slav could be derived from the Middle English word sclave, which was borrowed from Medieval Latin sclavus or slavus, itself a borrowing and Byzantine Greek σκλάβος sklábos ""slave,"" which was in turn apparently derived from a misunderstanding of the Slavic autonym "	The word Slav could be derived from what Middle English word?
"Lozinski argues that the word *slava once had the meaning of worshipper, in this context meaning ""practicer of a common Slavic religion,"" and from that evolved into an ethnonym"	Who argues that the word *slava once had the meaning of worshipper?
The earliest mentions of Slavic raids across the lower River Danube may be dated to the first half of the 6th century, yet no archaeological evidence of a Slavic settlement in the Balkans could be securely dated before c	The earliest mentions of Slavic raids are across what river?
The Slavs under name of the Antes and the Sclaveni make their first appearance in Byzantine records in the early 6th century	The Slavs make their first appearance in Byzantine records when?
"Procopius wrote in 545 that ""the Sclaveni and the Antae actually had a single name in the remote past; for they were both called Spori in olden times"	"Who wrote in 545 that ""the Sclaveni and the Antae actually had a single name in the remote past; for they were both called Spori in olden times.""?"
Jordanes tells us that the Sclaveni had swamps and forests for their cities	Who tells us that the Sclaveni had swamps and forests for their cities?
Menander Protector mentions a Daurentius that slew an Avar envoy of Khagan Bayan I	Who mentions a Daurentius that slew an Avar envoy of Khagan Bayan I?
The relationship between the Slavs and a tribe called the Veneti east of the River Vistula in the Roman period is uncertain	An uncertain relationship was held between the Slavs and who?
According to eastern homeland theory, prior to becoming known to the Roman world, Slavic-speaking tribes were part of the many multi-ethnic confederacies of Eurasia – such as the Sarmatian, Hun and Gothic empires	Slavic-speaking tribes were part of what prior to becoming known to the Roman world?
Around the 6th century, Slavs appeared on Byzantine borders in great numbers	When did Slavs appear on Byzantine borders?
When their migratory movements ended, there appeared among the Slavs the first rudiments of state organizations, each headed by a prince with a treasury and a defense force	What appeared among the Slavs when their migratory movements ended?
In the 7th century, the Frankish merchant Samo, who supported the Slavs fighting their Avar rulers, became the ruler of the first known Slav state in Central Europe, which, however, most probably did not outlive its founder and ruler	When did Samo become the ruler of the first known Slav state?
As of 1878, there were only three free Slavic states in the world: the Russian Empire, Serbia and Montenegro	What three free Slavic states were in the world as of 1878?
During World War II, Hitler's Generalplan Ost entailed killing, deporting, or enslaving the Slavic and Jewish population of occupied Eastern Europe to create Lebensraum for German settlers	Whose plan for the East entailed killing, deporting, or enslaving the Slavs?
The first half of the 20th century in Russia and the Soviet Union was marked by a succession of wars, famines and other disasters, each accompanied by large-scale population losses	The first half of the 20th century was marked by what in Russia and the Soviet Union?
In the 19th century, Pan-Slavism developed as a movement among intellectuals, scholars, and poets, but it rarely influenced practical politics and did not find support in some nations that had Slavic origins	When did Pan-Slavism develop as a movement?
"The word ""Slavs"" was used in the national anthem of the Slovak Republic , Yugoslavia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia , later Serbia and Montenegro "	"When was the word ""Slavs"" used in the national anthem of the Slovak Republic?"
Former Soviet states, as well as countries that used to be satellite states or territories of the Warsaw Pact, have numerous minority Slavic populations, many of whom are originally from the Russian SFSR, Ukrainian SSR and Byelorussian SSR	Many Slavic populations that were part of the Warsaw Pact are originally from where?
Pan-Slavism, a movement which came into prominence in the mid-19th century, emphasized the common heritage and unity of all the Slavic peoples	What movement came into prominence in the mid-19th century that emphasized the common heritage and unity of all the Slavic peoples?
Slavic studies began as an almost exclusively linguistic and philological enterprise	What began as an almost exclusively linguistic and philological enterprise?
The alphabet depends on what religion is usual for the respective Slavic ethnic groups	What depends on what religion is usual for the respective Slavic ethnic groups?
Proto-Slavic, the supposed ancestor language of all Slavic languages, is a descendant of common Proto-Indo-European, via a Balto-Slavic stage in which it developed numerous lexical and morphophonological isoglosses with the Baltic languages	What is the supposed ancestor of all Slavic languages?
Proto-Slavic, sometimes referred to as Common Slavic or Late Proto-Slavic, is defined as the last stage of the language preceding the geographical split of the historical Slavic languages	Proto-Slavic is sometimes referred to as what?
The pagan Slavic populations were Christianized between the 6th and 10th centuries	When were pagan Slavic populations Christianized?
Slavs are customarily divided along geographical lines into three major subgroups: West Slavs, East Slavs, and South Slavs, each with a different and a diverse background based on unique history, religion and culture of particular Slavic groups within them	Who is customarily divided along geographical lines into tree major subgroups?
^1 Also considered part of Rusyns ^2 Considered transitional between Ukrainians and Belarusians ^3 The ethnic affiliation of the Lemkos has become an ideological conflict	Ethnic affiliation of who has become an ideological conflict?
"Most Slavic Muslims now opt for Bosniak ethnicity, but some still use the ""Muslim"" designation"	Most Slavic Muslims now opt for what ethnicity?
^8 This identity continues to be used by a minority throughout the former Yugoslav republics	This identity continues to be used by a minority throughout the what former republics?
^9 Sub-groups of Croats include Bunjevci , Šokci , Janjevci , Burgenland Croats , Bosniaks , Molise Croats , Krashovans , Moravian Croats 	Where are Bunjevci located?
^10 Sub-groups of Slovenes include Prekmurians, Hungarian Slovenes, Carinthian Slovenes, Venetian Slovenes, Resians, and the extinct Carantanians and Somogy Slovenes	What sub-groups of Slovenes are extinct?
Some of the major regional South Slavic groups include: Zagorci in northern Croatia, Istrijani in westernmost Croatia, Dalmatinci in southern Croatia, Boduli in Adriatic islands, Vlaji in hinterland of Dalmatia, Slavonci in eastern Croatia, Bosanci in Bosnia, Hercegovci in Herzegovina, Krajišnici in western Bosnia, but is more commonly used to refer to the Serbs of Croatia, most of whom are descendants of the Grenzers, and continued to live in the area which made up the Military Frontier until the Croatian war of independence, Semberci in northeast Bosnia, Srbijanci in Serbia proper, Šumadinci in central Serbia, Vojvođani in northern Serbia, Sremci in Syrmia, Bačvani in northwest Vojvodina, Banaćani in Banat, Sandžaklije , Kosovci in Kosovo, Bokelji in southwest Montenegro, Trakiytsi in Upper Thracian Lowlands, Dobrudzhantsi in north-east Bulgarian region, Balkandzhii in Central Balkan Mountains, Miziytsi in north Bulgarian region, Warmiaks and Masurians in north-east Polish regions Warmia and Mazuria, Pirintsi in Blagoevgrad Province, Ruptsi in the Rhodopes etc	Serbs of Croatia are mostly descendants of who?
4% in Poland, 54% in Ukraine, 52% in Russia, Belarus, to 15	What is the frequency of Haplogroup R1a in Ukraine?
In 2007 Rębała and colleagues studied several Slavic populations with the aim of localizing the Proto-Slavic homeland	When did Rębała and colleagues studied several Slavic populations with the aim of localizing the Proto-Slavic homeland?
Marcin Woźniak and colleagues searched for specifically Slavic sub-group of R1a1a 	Who searched for specifically Slavic sub-group of R1a1a ?
Pomors are distinguished by the presence of Y Haplogroup N among them	What is distinguished by the presence of Y Haplogroup N?
2) is typical of the South Slavic populations, being highest in Bosnia-Herzegovina 	I2a1b1 is typical of what populations?
In 2008, biochemist Boris Arkadievich Malyarchuk et al	"When did Boris Arkadievich Malyarchuk use a sample of Czech individuals to determine the frequency of ""Monigoloid"" ""mtDNA lineages""?"
DNA samples from 1228 Russians show that the Y chromosomes analyzed, all except 20 (1	DNA from how many Russians show that the Y chromosomes fall into seven major haplogroups all characteristic to West Eurasian populations?
In the postulated homeland region , they had contacts with the Iranic Sarmatians and the Germanic Goths	What is the posulated homeland region of the Slavs?
In the Western Balkans, South Slavs and Germanic Gepids intermarried with Avar invaders, eventually producing a Slavicized population	Where did South Slavs and Germanic Gepids intermarried with Avar invaders?
Polabian Slavs settled in parts of England , apparently as Danish allies	Who settled in parts of England?
Cossacks, although Slavic-speaking and Orthodox Christians, came from a mix of ethnic backgrounds, including Tatars and other Turks	Cossacks came from what backgrounds?
The Gorals of southern Poland and northern Slovakia are partially descended from Romance-speaking Vlachs who migrated into the region from the 14th to 17th centuries and were absorbed into the local population	Where did the Gorals reside?
Although the majority continued south, attracted by the riches of the territory which would become Bulgaria, a few remained in the Carpathian basin and were ultimately assimilated into the Magyar or Romanian population	Slavs that remained in the Carpathian basin were assimilated into who?
The city, which is a unitary authority, has an estimated population of 253,651	What's the estimated population of Southampton?
Southampton has a large shopping centre and retail park called WestQuay	What is the big retail shopping center in Southampton called?
In the 2001 census Southampton and Portsmouth were recorded as being parts of separate urban areas, however by the time of the 2011 census they had merged to become the sixth largest built-up area in England with a population of 855,569	What other city merged with Southampton after the 2001 census?
Following the Roman invasion of Britain in AD 43 and the conquering of the local Britons in 70 AD the fortress settlement of Clausentum was established	What year did the Romans invade Britain?
The Anglo-Saxons formed a new, larger, settlement across the Itchen centred on what is now the St Mary's area of the city	What people established a settlement in what is now the St. Mary's area of Southampton?
Viking raids from 840 onwards contributed to the decline of Hamwic in the 9th century, and by the 10th century a fortified settlement, which became medieval Southampton, had been established	What kind of raids disturbed Hamwic in the 9th century?
Following the Norman Conquest in 1066, Southampton became the major port of transit between the then capital of England, Winchester, and Normandy	In what year did the Norman Conquest take place?
Surviving remains of 12th century merchants' houses such as King John's House and Canute's Palace are evidence of the wealth that existed in the town at this time	Ruins of merchants' homes that survive today are evidence that Southampton had rich people in what century?
The town was sacked in 1338 by French, Genoese and Monegasque ships 	Who led the invasion of Southampton in the 14th century by the French and others?
The city walls include God's House Tower, built in 1417, the first purpose-built artillery fortification in England	What's the name of the wall tower that was the first of its kind in England built for artillery purposes?
From successive incarnations of the motte and bailey castle, only a section of the bailey wall remains today, lying just off Castle Way	The only remaining piece of the motte and bailey castle can be seen near what modern Southampton street?
Constructed in 1290, the system carried water from Conduit Head some 1	In what year was the friars' water supply system built in Southampton?
In 1642, during the English Civil War, a Parliamentary garrison moved into Southampton	What war was taking place in the 1640s in England?
During the Middle Ages, shipbuilding became an important industry for the town	What skilled trade was a central industry for Southampton in the Middle Ages?
"Prior to King Henry's departure for the Battle of Agincourt in 1415, the ringleaders of the ""Southampton Plot""—Richard, Earl of Cambridge, Henry Scrope, 3rd Baron Scrope of Masham, and Sir Thomas Grey of Heton—were accused of high treason and tried at what is now the Red Lion public house in the High Street"	What battle did King Henry leave for in 1415?
Southampton has been used for military embarkation, including during 18th-century wars with the French, the Crimean war, and the Boer War	What did the military use Southampton for during wars in the 18th century?
Southampton became a spa town in 1740	When did Southampton turn into a spa town?
The town experienced major expansion during the Victorian era	In what historical period did Southampton expand greatly?
"In his 1854 book ""The Cruise of the Steam Yacht North Star"" John Choules described Southampton thus: ""I hardly know a town that can show a more beautiful Main Street than Southampton, except it be Oxford"	"Who wrote ""The Cruise of the Steam Yacht North Star""?"
The port was the point of departure for the Pilgrim Fathers aboard Mayflower in 1620	What famous ship left Southampton's port carrying the Pilgrim Fathers?
Its designer, R J Mitchell, lived in the Portswood area of Southampton, and his house is today marked with a blue plaque	Who designed the Supermarine Spitfire?
630 people lost their lives as a result of the air raids on Southampton and nearly 2,000 more were injured, not to mention the thousands of buildings damaged or destroyed	How many people died because of the bombs dropped on Southampton?
Pockets of Georgian architecture survived the war, but much of the city was levelled	What style of architecture partially survived the war?
A Royal Charter in 1952 upgraded University College at Highfield to the University of Southampton	What document declared the upgrade of University College at Highfield?
After the establishment of Hampshire County Council, following the act in 1888, Southampton became a county borough within the county of Hampshire, which meant that it had many features of a county, but governance was now shared between the Corporation in Southampton and the new county council	In what year did an act establish the Hampshire County Council?
Southampton as a Port and city has had a long history of administrative independence of the surrounding County; as far back as the reign of King John the town and its port were removed from the writ of the King's Sheriff in Hampshire and the rights of custom and toll were granted by the King to the burgesses of Southampton over the port of Southampton and the Port of Portsmouth; this tax farm was granted for an annual fee of £200 in the charter dated at Orival on 29 June 1199	Southampton's history of administrative independence dates back to the reign of which king?
The status of the town was changed by a later charter of Charles I by at once the formal separation from Portsmouth and the recognition of Southampton as a county, In the charter dated 27 June 1640 the formal title of the town became 'The Town and County of the Town of Southampton'	What king's charter recognized Southampton as its own county?
The city has undergone many changes to its governance over the centuries and once again became administratively independent from Hampshire County as it was made into a unitary authority in a local government reorganisation on 1 April 1997, a result of the 1992 Local Government Act	What county did the city of Southampton become administratively independent of in April of 1997?
Southampton City Council consists of 48 councillors, 3 for each of the 16 wards	How many concillors sit on Southampton's City Council?
3	How many councillors are assigned to each ward in Southampton?
There are three members of parliament for the city: Royston Smith for Southampton Itchen, the constituency covering the east of the city; Dr	How many representatives does Southampton have in parliament?
The city has a Mayor and is one of the 16 cities and towns in England and Wales to have a ceremonial sheriff who acts as a deputy for the Mayor	How many cities or towns are there in all of England and Wales with a ceremonial sheriff acting as the Mayor's deputy?
Southampton City Council has developed twinning links with Le Havre in France , Rems-Murr-Kreis in Germany , Trieste in Italy ; Hampton, Virginia in USA, Qingdao in China , and Busan in South Korea 	What city in France does Southampton City Council have a twinning link with?
The city lies at the northern tip of the Southampton Water, a deep water estuary, which is a ria formed at the end of the last Ice Age	At which tip of Southampton Water is Southampton located?
Town Quay is the original public quay, and dates from the 13th century	What's the name of the public quay that's been in Southampton since the 13th century?
Southampton Water has the benefit of a double high tide, with two high tide peaks, making the movement of large ships easier	How many high tide peaks does Southampton Water get?
The River Test runs along the western border of the city, separating it from the New Forest	Along which border of Southampton does the River Test run?
It has a number of parks and green spaces, the largest being the 148 hectare Southampton Common, parts of which are used to host the annual summer festivals, circuses and fun fairs	What's the largest park in Southampton?
The city is ranked 96th most deprived out of all 354 Local Authorities in England	How many Local Authorities are there in England?
As with the rest of the UK, Southampton experiences an oceanic climate 	What kind of climate does Southampton have?
The centre of Southampton is located above a large hot water aquifer that provides geothermal power to some of the city's buildings	What source of geothermal power sits below Southampton's center?
4 per cent of the city's populace was White—including one per cent White Irish—3	What race makes up the vast majority of Southampton's population?
Southampton had an estimated 236,900 people living within the city boundary in 2011	In 2011, what was the estimated population of Southampton inside city limits?
There are 119,500 males within the city and 117,400 females	Are there more males or females in Southampton?
In 2005 the Government Statistics stated that Southampton was the third most densely populated city in the country after London and Portsmouth respectively	What's the only other city in England besides Portsmouth more densely populated than Southampton?
In March 2007 there were 120,305 jobs in Southampton, and 3,570 people claiming job seeker's allowance, approximately 2	How many jobs were there in Southampton in March of 2007?
Just over a quarter of the jobs available in the city are in the health and education sector	What sector provides about a quarter of Southampton's available jobs?
In January 2007, the average annual salary in the city was £22,267	What was Southampton's average annual salary in January of 2007?
In particular, it is a port for cruise ships; its heyday was the first half of the 20th century, and in particular the inter-war years, when it handled almost half the passenger traffic of the UK	About how much of UK's passenger traffic did Southampton handle during the inter-war period?
During the latter half of the 20th century, a more diverse range of industry also came to the city, including aircraft and car manufacture, cables, electrical engineering products, and petrochemicals	What century saw more diverse industries come to Southampton?
It provides local hospital services to 500,000 people in the Southampton area and specialist regional services to more than 3 million people across the South of England	How many people in the Southampton area receive hospital services from University Hospital Southampton NHS Foundation Trust?
Other major employers in the city include Ordnance Survey, the UK's national mapping agency, whose headquarters is located in a new building on the outskirts of the city, opened in February 2011	What's the name of the UK's national mapping agency?
Southampton's largest retail centre, and 35th largest in the UK, is the WestQuay Shopping Centre, which opened in September 2000 and hosts major high street stores including John Lewis and Marks and Spencer	What's the largest retail center in Southampton?
Southampton's strong economy is promoting redevelopment, and major projects are proposed, including the city's first skyscrapers on the waterfront	What type of tall buildings are being planned on Southampton's waterfront?
The vast majority of this is from the service sector, with the remainder coming from industry in the city	What sector puts up most of Southampton's economic contribution?
The city is home to the longest surviving stretch of medieval walls in England, as well as a number of museums such as Tudor House Museum, reopened on 30 July 2011 after undergoing extensive restoration and improvement; Southampton Maritime Museum; God's House Tower, an archaeology museum about the city's heritage and located in one of the tower walls; the Medieval Merchant's House; and Solent Sky, which focuses on aviation	What museum reopened on July 30th, 2011 after a huge renovation?
The annual Southampton Boat Show is held in September each year, with over 600 exhibitors present	In what month each year is the Southampton Boat Show held?
The largest theatre in the city is the 2,300 capacity Mayflower Theatre , which, as the largest theatre in Southern England outside London, has hosted West End shows such as Les Misérables, The Rocky Horror Show and Chitty Chitty Bang Bang, as well as regular visits from Welsh National Opera and English National Ballet	What's the biggest theatre in Southampton?
The Southampton City Art Gallery at the Civic Centre is one of the best known and as well as a nationally important Designated Collection, houses several permanent and travelling exhibitions	What gallery in Southampton houses a Designated Collection?
Southampton has two large live music venues, the Mayflower Theatre and the Guildhall	In addition to the Mayflower Theatre, what's Southampton's other big venue for live music?
The nightclub, Junk, has been nominated for the UK's best small nightclub, and plays host to a range of dance music's top acts	What nightclub in Southampton was nominated for the UK's best small nightclub?
The city is home or birthplace to a number of contemporary musicians such as R'n'B singer Craig David, Coldplay drummer Will Champion, former Holloways singer Rob Skipper as well as 1980s popstar Howard Jones	What popular RnB singer hails from Southampton?
From there the BBC broadcasts South Today, the local television news bulletin and BBC Radio Solent	What program with a direction in its name does the BBC broadcast from Southampton?
Southampton also has 2 community FM radio stations, the Queens Award winning Unity 101 Community Radio (www	How many community FM radio stations are there in Southampton?
Commercial radio stations broadcasting to the city include The Breeze, previously The Saint and currently broadcasting Hot adult contemporary music, Capital, previously Power FM and Galaxy and broadcasting popular music, Wave 105 and Heart Hampshire, the latter previously Ocean FM and both broadcasting adult contemporary music, and 106 Jack FM (www	What's the new name of the station formerly known as The Saint?
"Southampton is home to Southampton Football Club—nicknamed ""The Saints""—who play in the Premier League at St Mary's Stadium, having relocated in 2001 from their 103-year-old former stadium, ""The Dell"""	What's the nickname of the Southampton Football Club?
The two local Sunday Leagues in the Southampton area are the City of Southampton Sunday Football League and the Southampton and District Sunday Football League	Local Southampton football leagues have what day of the week in their names?
Hampshire County Cricket Club play close to the city, at the Rose Bowl in West End, after previously playing at the County Cricket Ground and the Antelope Ground, both near the city centre	At what venue does the Hampshire County Cricket Club play?
The city hockey club, Southampton Hockey Club, founded in 1938, is now one of the largest and highly regarded clubs in Hampshire, fielding 7 senior men's and 5 senior ladies teams on a weekly basis along with boys’ and girls’ teams from 6 upwards	What's Southampton's hockey club named?
7	How many senior men's teams does the hockey club field each week?
The city is also well provided for in amateur men's and women's rugby with a number of teams in and around the city, the oldest of which is Trojans RFC who were promoted to London South West 2 division in 2008/9	What's the oldest rugby team in Southampton?
The city provides for yachting and water sports, with a number of marinas	What feature does Southampton have plenty of that provides for water sports and yachting?
The city also has the Southampton Sports Centre which is the focal point for the public's sporting and outdoor activities and includes an Alpine Centre, theme park and athletics centre which is used by professional athletes	What facility is the center of Southampton's public sports and outdoor activities?
"Southampton was named ""fittest city in the UK"" in 2006 by Men's Fitness magazine"	"What magazine awarded Southampton ""fittest city in the UK"" in 2006?"
Southampton is also home to one of the most successful College American Football teams in the UK, the Southampton Stags, who play at the Wide Lane Sports Facility in Eastleigh	What College American Football team calls Southampton home?
Southampton's police service is provided by Hampshire Constabulary	Who is responsible for policing Southampton?
Southampton's fire cover is provided by Hampshire Fire and Rescue Service	Who handles fires in Southampton?
Overall, for every 1,000 people in the city, 202 crimes are recorded	How many crimes overall are reported for each 1,000 people in Southampton?
The city has a strong higher education sector	Is Southampton's higher education sector weak or strong?
The University of Southampton, which was founded in 1862 and received its Royal Charter as a university in 1952, has over 22,000 students	What year was the University of Southampton founded?
Southampton Solent University has 17,000 students and its strengths are in the training, design, consultancy, research and other services undertaken for business and industry	How many students attend Southampton Solent University?
In addition to school sixth forms at St Anne's and King Edward's there are two sixth form colleges: Itchen College and Richard Taunton Sixth Form College	How many standalone sixth form colleges are there in Southampton?
Over 40 per cent of school pupils in the city that responded to a survey claimed to have been the victim of bullying	More than what percentage of the students surveyed said they'd been bullied?
It has been revealed that Southampton has the worst behaved secondary schools within the UK	Which level of schools in Southampton are the worst behaved in the UK?
The M27 motorway, linking places along the south coast of England, runs just to the north of the city	Which motorway located north of Southampton links up England's south coast?
Southampton is also served by the rail network, which is used both by freight services to and from the docks and passenger services as part of the national rail system	Southampton's railways provide freight services and what other important services?
Local train services operate in the central, southern and eastern sections of the city and are operated by South West Trains, with stations at Swaythling, St Denys, Millbrook, Redbridge, Bitterne, Sholing and Woolston	In addition to the southern and eastern sections of Southampton, what other section has local train service?
The town was the subject of an attempt by a separate company, the Didcot, Newbury and Southampton Railway, to open another rail route to the North in the 1880s and some building work, including a surviving embankment, was undertaken in the Hill Lane area	What competing railway company tried to open a rail route in the 1880s?
Southampton Airport is a regional airport located in the town of Eastleigh, just north of the city	In what town is Southampton Airport located?
Many of the world's largest cruise ships can regularly be seen in Southampton water, including record-breaking vessels from Royal Caribbean and Carnival Corporation & plc	What cruise line has its headquarters in Southampton?
The city has a particular connection to Cunard Line and their fleet of ships	What brand of cruise ships has a special importance to Southampton?
At certain times of the year, The Queen Mary 2, Queen Elizabeth and Queen Victoria may all visit Southampton at the same time, in an event commonly called 'Arrival of the Three Queens'	What does Southampton call the event when three ships named after queens all visit the city?
The importance of Southampton to the cruise industry was indicated by P&O Cruises's 175th anniversary celebrations, which included all seven of the company's liners visiting Southampton in a single day	What cruise line celebrated a landmark anniversary in Southampton in July of 2012?
While Southampton is no longer the base for any cross-channel ferries, it is the terminus for three internal ferry services, all of which operate from terminals at Town Quay	How many internal ferry services does Southampton serve?
A ferry port was built during the 1960s	In what decade was the ferry port built in Southampton to carry people to exotic destinations on the continent?
Buses now provide the majority of local public transport	What form of public transport do most people in Southampton use now?
As the biggest operator, First uses stops around Pound Tree Road	What road does First use stops around to leave a terminal available for other buses?
A treaty is an agreement under international law entered into by actors in international law, namely sovereign states and international organizations	Who are the actors in international law?
Treaties can be loosely compared to contracts: both are means of willing parties assuming obligations among themselves, and a party to either that fails to live up to their obligations can be held liable under international law	What must a party to a treaty do to prevent being held liable under international law?
A treaty is the official document which expresses that agreement in words; and it is also the objective outcome of a ceremonial occasion which acknowledges the parties and their defined relationships	How are the agreements in a treaty expressed?
Since the late 19th century, most treaties have followed a fairly consistent format	What is shared by most treaties since the late 19th century?
The contracting parties' full names or sovereign titles are often included in the preamble, along with the full names and titles of their representatives, and a boilerplate clause about how their representatives have communicated their full powers (i	What term describes a common clause in a treaty stating that the representatives of the parties have communicated their full powers?
After the preamble comes numbered articles, which contain the substance of the parties' actual agreement	What follows the preamble in a treaty?
Modern treaties, regardless of subject matter, usually contain articles governing where the final authentic copies of the treaty will be deposited and how any subsequent disputes as to their interpretation will be peacefully resolved	What type of resolution to disputes is typically outlined in a treaty?
"The end of a treaty, the eschatocol , is often signaled by a clause like ""in witness whereof"" or ""in faith whereof,"" the parties have affixed their signatures, followed by the words ""DONE at,"" then the site of the treaty's execution and the date of its execution"	What is the formal name for the closing protocol of a treaty?
The signatures of the parties' representatives follow at the very end	Whose signatures appear at the very end of a treaty?
Bilateral treaties are concluded between two states or entities	Bilateral treaties are concluded between how many states or entities?
A multilateral treaty is concluded among several countries	What is a treaty concluded among several countries?
Reservations are essentially caveats to a state's acceptance of a treaty	What are caveats to a state's acceptance of a treaty?
Originally, international law was unaccepting of treaty reservations, rejecting them unless all parties to the treaty accepted the same reservations	A more permissive rule regarding what emerged to encourage the largest number of states to join treaties?
When a state limits its treaty obligations through reservations, other states party to that treaty have the option to accept those reservations, object to them, or object and oppose them	When a state adds reservations to a treaty, other parties to the treaty can respond to those reservations in what ways?
There are three ways an existing treaty can be amended	How many ways are there to amend an existing treaty?
In international law and international relations, a protocol is generally a treaty or international agreement that supplements a previous treaty or international agreement	What is a treaty that supplements a previous treaty in international law?
Some examples: the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change established a framework for the development of binding greenhouse gas emission limits, while the Kyoto Protocol contained the specific provisions and regulations later agreed upon	The Kyoto Protocol is associated with what treaty?
Treaties may be seen as 'self-executing', in that merely becoming a party puts the treaty and all of its obligations in action	A treaty that puts all of its obligations in action simply by becoming a party to it is known as what?
The division between the two is often not clear and is often politicized in disagreements within a government over a treaty, since a non-self-executing treaty cannot be acted on without the proper change in domestic law	What type of treaty cannot be acted on without the proper change in domestic law?
""" International legal experts also often invoke the 'principle of maximum effectiveness,' which interprets treaty language as having the fullest force and effect possible to establish obligations between the parties"	What principle is often invoked by legal experts when interpreting the language of treaties?
No one party to a treaty can impose its particular interpretation of the treaty upon the other parties	No one party to a treaty can do what to the other parties?
International tribunals and arbiters are often called upon to resolve substantial disputes over treaty interpretations	What are international tribunals and arbiters often called upon to resolve in regards to treaties?
For example, within the United States, agreements between states are compacts and agreements between states and the federal government or between agencies of the government are memoranda of understanding	What are agreements between states within the United States called?
Another situation can occur when one party wishes to create an obligation under international law, but the other party does not	Parties to a treaty may disagree over a desire to create an obligation under what?
Conversely some legal documents such as the Treaty of Waitangi are internationally considered to be documents under domestic law	What is the Treaty of Waitangi internationally considered to be?
As obligations in international law are traditionally viewed as arising only from the consent of states, many treaties expressly allow a state to withdraw as long as it follows certain procedures of notification	Traditionally, what must a state do in order for an obligation to arise in international law?
It has, for example, been held that it is not possible to withdraw from the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights	What is an example of a treaty from which it is not possible to withdraw?
In practice, because of sovereignty, any state can withdraw from any treaty at any time	What factor, in practice, allows a state to withdraw from any treaty at any time?
If a state party's withdrawal is successful, its obligations under that treaty are considered terminated, and withdrawal by one party from a bilateral treaty of course terminates the treaty	What happens to a state's obligations under a treaty upon its withdrawal from the treaty?
A material breach may also be invoked as grounds for permanently terminating the treaty itself	What may be invoked as grounds for permanently terminating a treaty?
Sometimes treaties will provide for the seriousness of a breach to be determined by a tribunal or other independent arbiter	What might a tribunal or an arbiter be asked to determine regarding a breach of a treaty?
Treaties sometimes include provisions for self-termination, meaning that the treaty is automatically terminated if certain defined conditions are met	Some treaties contains provisions for what to happen if certain defined conditions are met?
A party may claim that a treaty should be terminated, even absent an express provision, if there has been a fundamental change in circumstances	What might result in a party to a treaty claiming a treaty should be terminated even absent an express provision for its termination?
The Islamic Prophet Muhammad carried out a siege against the Banu Qaynuqa tribe known as the Invasion of Banu Qaynuqa in February 624 Muhammad ordered his followers to attack the Banu Qaynuqa Jews for allegedly breaking the treaty known as the Constitution of Medina by pinning the clothes of a Muslim woman, which led to her being stripped naked As a result, a Muslim killed a Jew in retaliation, and the Jews in turn killed the Muslim man	The Islamic Prophet Muhammad carried out a siege against what tribe in February 624?
Muhammad also ordered another siege on the Banu Qurayza during the Invasion of Banu Qurayza, because according to Muslim tradition he had been ordered to do so by the angel Gabriel	What angel, according to Muslim tradition, ordered Muhammad to order a siege on the Banu Qurayza?
There are several reasons an otherwise valid and agreed upon treaty may be rejected as a binding international agreement, most of which involve problems created at the formation of the treaty	When are most of the problems created that might result in an otherwise valid treaty being rejected as a binding international agreement?
A party's consent to a treaty is invalid if it had been given by an agent or body without power to do so under that state's domestic law	A party's consent to a treaty is invalid if it had been given by an agent or body without power to do so under what?
Consent is also invalid if it is given by a representative who ignored restrictions he is subject to by his sovereign during the negotiations, if the other parties to the treaty were notified of those restrictions prior to his signing	If a state's representative ignored restrictions he is subject to by his sovereign, what might that state's consent to a treaty be considered to be?
According to the preamble in The Law of Treaties, treaties are a source of international law	The preamble of what states that treaties are a source of international law?
Articles 46–53 of the Vienna Convention on the Law of Treaties set out the only ways that treaties can be invalidated—considered unenforceable and void under international law	Which articles of the Vienna Convention on the Law of Treaties set out the ways that treaties can be invalidated?
Consent will not be invalidated if the misunderstanding was due to the state's own conduct, or if the truth should have been evident	What on behalf of a state cannot invalidate that state's consent to a treaty?
"Consent will also be invalidated if it was induced by the fraudulent conduct of another party, or by the direct or indirect ""corruption"" of its representative by another party to the treaty"	What type of conduct of a party to a treaty can invalidate the consent of another party?
A treaty is null and void if it is in violation of a peremptory norm	What will a treaty be if it is in violation of a peremptory norm?
The United Nations Charter states that treaties must be registered with the UN to be invoked before it or enforced in its judiciary organ, the International Court of Justice	What is the judiciary organ of the United Nations?
After their adoption, treaties as well as their amendments have to follow the official legal procedures of the United Nations, as applied by the Office of Legal Affairs, including signature, ratification and entry into force	Treaties and their amendments must follow the official legal procedures of what body after their adoption?
In function and effectiveness, the UN has been compared to the pre-Constitutional United States Federal government by some, giving a comparison between modern treaty law and the historical Articles of Confederation	The United Nations has been compared to what government in function and effectiveness?
The Brazilian federal constitution states that the power to enter into treaties is vested in the president and that such treaties must be approved by Congress 	What part of the Brazilian federal consitution states that the power to enter into treaties is vested in the president and that such treaties must be approved by Congress?
The Federal Supreme Court has established that treaties are subject to constitutional review and enjoy the same hierarchical position as ordinary legislation 	The Brazilian Federal Supreme Court has ruled that treaties enjoy what position relative to ordinary legislation?
The Brazilian federal constitution does not have a supremacy clause with the same effects as the one on the U	What kind of clause does the United States constitution have that the Brazilian constitution does not have with the same effects?
All four classes are equally treaties under international law; they are distinct only from the perspective of internal American law	Treaties, executive agreements, congressional-executive agreements, and sole executive agreements are the same under international law but different with respect to what?
Currently, international agreements are executed by executive agreement rather than treaties at a rate of 10:1	In the United States, what is the ratio of executive agreements to treaties?
"The Supreme Court ruled in the Head Money Cases that ""treaties"" do not have a privileged position over Acts of Congress and can be repealed or modified (for the purposes of U"	In what cases did the US Supreme Court rule that treaties do not have a privileged position over Acts of Congress?
In India, the legislation subjects are divided into 3 lists -Union List, State List and Concurrent List	Into what 3 lists are legislation subjects divided in India?
Treaties formed an important part of European colonization and, in many parts of the world, Europeans attempted to legitimize their sovereignty by signing treaties with indigenous peoples	What formed an important part of European colonization?
In some rare cases, such as with Ethiopia and Qing Dynasty China, the local governments were able to use the treaties to at least mitigate the impact of European colonization	In what two rare cases were local governments able to mitigate the impact of of European colonization through treaties?
In other cases, such as New Zealand and Canada, treaties allowed native peoples to maintain a minimum amount of autonomy	What were native peoples able to maintain a minimum amount of through treaties?
Prior to 1871, the government of the United States regularly entered into treaties with Native Americans but the Indian Appropriations Act of March 3, 1871 (ch	What legislative act provided that no Indian nation shall be acknowledged as an independent nation with whom the United States may contract by treaty?
Josip Broz Tito ; born Josip Broz; 7 May 1892 – 4 May 1980) was a Yugoslav revolutionary and statesman, serving in various roles from 1943 until his death in 1980	In what year did Josip Broz Tito die?
He was General Secretary of the League of Communists of Yugoslavia , and went on to lead the World War II Yugoslav guerrilla movement, the Partisans 	What position in the League of Communists of Yugoslavia was Tito?
Josip Broz was born to a Croat father and Slovene mother in the village of Kumrovec, Croatia	What ethnicity was Tito's mother?
Tito was the chief architect of the second Yugoslavia, a socialist federation that lasted from 1943 to 1991–92	When did the second Yugoslavia start?
Josip Broz was born on 7 May 1892 in Kumrovec, in the northern Croatian region of Hrvatsko Zagorje in Austria-Hungary	Where was Josip Broz born?
In the autumn of 1913, he was conscripted into the Austro-Hungarian Army	When was he conscripted into the army?
After 13 months at the hospital, Broz was sent to a work camp in the Ural Mountains where prisoners selected him for their camp leader	How long was Broz in the hospital?
In the 1920 elections the Communists won 59 seats in the parliament and became the third strongest party	How many seats did the Communists win in 1920 Yugoslavia?
In 1934 the Zagreb Provincial Committee sent Tito to Vienna where all the Central Committee of the Communist Party of Yugoslavia had sought refuge	When was Tito sent to Vienna?
On 6 April 1941, German forces, with Hungarian and Italian assistance, launched an invasion of Yugoslavia	When did German forces launch an invasion of Yugoslavia?
"Despite conflicts with the rival monarchic Chetnik movement, Tito's Partisans succeeded in liberating territory, notably the ""Republic of Užice"""	Who succeeded in liberating territory despite conflicts?
On 21 December 1941, the Partisans created the First Proletarian Brigade and on 1 March 1942, Tito created the Second Proletarian Brigade	When did the Partisans create the First Proletarian Brigade?
With the growing possibility of an Allied invasion in the Balkans, the Axis began to divert more resources to the destruction of the Partisans main force and its high command	Who diverted resources to the destruction of the Partisans?
After the Partisans managed to endure and avoid these intense Axis attacks between January and June 1943, and the extent of Chetnik collaboration became evident, Allied leaders switched their support from Draža Mihailović to Tito	Who was attacking the Partisans in 1943?
In the first post war years Tito was widely considered a communist leader very loyal to Moscow, indeed, he was often viewed as second only to Stalin in the Eastern Bloc	Who was Tito considered loyal to?
"On 12 September 1944, King Peter II called on all Yugoslavs to come together under Tito's leadership and stated that those who did not were ""traitors"", by which time Tito was recognized by all Allied authorities as the Prime Minister of Yugoslavia, in addition to commander-in-chief of the Yugoslav forces"	In 1944 who called on all Yuboslavs to come together under Tito's leadership?
In the final days of World War II in Yugoslavia, units of the Partisans were responsible for atrocities after the repatriations of Bleiburg, and accusations of culpability were later raised at the Yugoslav leadership under Tito	Who offered amnesty to the retreatig column? 
On 7 March 1945, the provisional government of the Democratic Federal Yugoslavia was assembled in Belgrade by Josip Broz Tito, while the provisional name allowed for either a republic or monarchy	Where was the provisional government of the Democratic Federal Yugoslavia assembled?
The State Security Administration was also formed as the new secret police, along with a security agency, the Department of People's Security , OZNA)	What was formed as the new secret police?
Prime Minister Josip Broz Tito met with the president of the Bishops' Conference of Yugoslavia, Aloysius Stepinac on 4 June 1945, two days after his release from imprisonment	Who was the president of the Bishops' Conference of Yugoslavia?
Tito's leading role in liberating Yugoslavia not only greatly strengthened his position in his party and among the Yugoslav people, but also caused him to be more insistent that Yugoslavia had more room to follow its own interests than other Bloc leaders who had more reasons to recognize Soviet efforts in helping them liberate their own countries from Axis control	Who had a leading role in liberating Yugoslavia?
Following the war, Yugoslavia acquired the Italian territory of Istria as well as the cities of Zadar and Rijeka	What Italian territory did Yugoslavia acquire after the war?
Tito's response on 17 May suggested that the matter be settled at the meeting of the Cominform to be held that June	Tito did not attend the second meeting of this.
One significant consequence of the tension arising between Yugoslavia and Soviet Union, was that Tito fought Yugoslav Stalinists with Stalin's methods	Whose methods did Tito use to fight Yugoslav Stalinists?
Tito's estrangement from the USSR enabled Yugoslavia to obtain US aid via the Economic Cooperation Administration , the same US aid institution which administered the Marshall Plan	Which country gave Yugoslavia aid when Tito became estranged from the USSR?
This rift with the Soviet Union brought Tito much international recognition, but also triggered a period of instability often referred to as the Informbiro period	What name refers to the period of instability during the rift between Tito and the USSR?
"On 26 June 1950, the National Assembly supported a crucial bill written by Milovan Đilas and Tito about ""self-management"" : a type of cooperative independent socialist experiment that introduced profit sharing and workplace democracy in previously state-run enterprises which then became the direct social ownership of the employees"	"In what year did the National Assembly support a crucial bill about ""self Management""?"
It has, for example, been given as one of the reasons for the Slánský trial in Czechoslovakia, in which 14 high-level Communist officials were purged, with 11 of them being executed	How many high-level Communists were purged in the Slansky trial?
Under Tito's leadership, Yugoslavia became a founding member of the Non-Aligned Movement	Under whose leadership did Yugoslavia become a founding member of the Non-Aligned Movement?
Tito's foreign policy led to relationships with a variety of governments, such as exchanging visits with Emperor Haile Selassie of Ethiopia, where a street was named in his honor	When did Tito first visit Emperor Haile Selassie?
Tito was notable for pursuing a foreign policy of neutrality during the Cold War and for establishing close ties with developing countries	During what period did Tito pursue a policy of neutrality?
Tito met many world leaders during his rule, such as Soviet rulers Joseph Stalin, Nikita Khrushchev and Leonid Brezhnev; Egypt's Gamal Abdel Nasser, Indian politicians Jawaharlal Nehru and Indira Gandhi; British Prime Ministers Winston Churchill, James Callaghan and Margaret Thatcher; U	Nasser was a leader of what country?
Tito visited India from December 22, 1954 through January 8, 1955	When did Tito first visit India?
Tito also developed warm relations with Burma under U Nu, travelling to the country in 1955 and again in 1959, though he didn't receive the same treatment in 1959 from the new leader, Ne Win	What country did U Nu lead?
Because of its neutrality, Yugoslavia would often be rare among Communist countries to have diplomatic relations with right-wing, anti-Communist governments	What was the only Communist country allowed to have an embassy in Stroessner's Paraguay?
On 7 April 1963, the country changed its official name to the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia	When did Yugoslavia change its name to the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia?
In 1966 an agreement with the Vatican, fostered in part by the death in 1960 of anti-communist archbishop of Zagreb Aloysius Stepinac and shifts in the church's approach to resisting communism originating in the Second Vatican Council, accorded new freedom to the Yugoslav Roman Catholic Church, particularly to catechize and open seminaries	What anti-communist archbisoph died in 1960?
On 1 January 1967, Yugoslavia was the first communist country to open its borders to all foreign visitors and abolish visa requirements	Who was the first communist country to open its borders to all foreign visitors?
In 1968, Tito offered Czechoslovak leader Alexander Dubček to fly to Prague on three hours notice if Dubček needed help in facing down the Soviets	What country did Dubcek lead?
In 1971, Tito was re-elected as President of Yugoslavia by the Federal Assembly for the sixth time	In what year was Tito reelected president of Yugoslavia for the sixth time?
Tito's greatest strength, in the eyes of the western communists, had been in suppressing nationalist insurrections and maintaining unity throughout the country	What person's calls for unity is credited by western communists of holding together Yugoslavia?
Tito's visits to the United States avoided most of the Northeast due to large minorities of Yugoslav emigrants bitter about communism in Yugoslavia	What flag did protesters of Tito often burn?
He continued to travel abroad and receive foreign visitors, going to Beijing in 1977 and reconciling with a Chinese leadership that had once branded him a revisionist	Where did Tito travel in 1977 to reconcile with Chinese leadership?
Tito became increasingly ill over the course of 1979	During what year did Tito become increasingly ill?
Tito was interred in a mausoleum in Belgrade, which forms part of a memorial complex in the grounds of the Museum of Yugoslav History 	In what city was Tito interred?
Several of these places have since returned to their original names, such as Podgorica, formerly Titograd , and Užice, formerly Titovo Užice, which reverted to its original name in 1992	What name was changed to Titograd?
"Every year a ""Brotherhood and Unity"" relay race is organized in Montenegro, Macedonia and Serbia which ends at the ""House of Flowers"" in Belgrade on May 25 – the final resting place of Tito"	"Where does the annual ""Brotherhood and Unity"" relay race end?"
On 4 October 2011, the Slovenian Constitutional Court found a 2009 naming of a street in Ljubljana after Tito to be unconstitutional	On what year did a Slovenian court find a 2009 naming of a street after Tito to be unconstitutional?
Slovenia has several streets and squares named after Tito, notably Tito Square in Velenje, incorporating a 10-meter statue	Tito Square is located in what Slovenian city?
Tito has also been named as responsible for systematic eradication of the ethnic German population in Vojvodina by expulsions and mass executions following the collapse of the German occupation of Yugoslavia at the end of World War II, in contrast to his inclusive attitude towards other Yugoslav nationalities	What is the ethnic origin of the Danube Swabian people?
In 1918 he was brought to Omsk, Russia, as a prisoner of war	Where in Russia was Tito brought as a prisoner of war in 1918?
In 1936, when Tito stayed at the Hotel Lux in Moscow, he met the Austrian comrade Lucia Bauer	Where is the Hotel Lux located in Russia?
His next relationship was with Herta Haas, whom he married in 1940	Who did Tito marry in 1940?
His best known wife was Jovanka Broz	Who was Tito's best known wife?
"Tito's notable grandchildren include Aleksandra Broz, a prominent theatre director in Croatia; Svetlana Broz, a cardiologist and writer in Bosnia-Herzegovina; and Josip ""Joška"" Broz, Edvard Broz and Natali Klasevski, an artisan of Bosnia-Herzegovina"	Which of Tito's grandchildren is a theatre director?
In Belgrade he resided in the official residence, the Beli dvor, and maintained a separate private home	What is the name of the official residence in Belgrade?
"Another residence was maintained at Lake Bled, while the grounds at Karađorđevo were the site of ""diplomatic hunts"""	"The grounds at what location were the site of ""diplomatic hunts""?"
German 	With what accent did Tito speak German according to a biographer?
As an adult, he frequently declared that he was an atheist	What did Tito declare himself to be religiously as an adult?
The largest of these was Titograd, now Podgorica, the capital city of Montenegro	What is the name of the largest town or city renamed in Tito's name?
Tito's personal doctor, Aleksandar Matunović, wrote a book about Tito in which he also questioned his true origin, noting that Tito's habits and lifestyle could only mean that he was from an aristocratic family	What was the name of Tito's personal doctor?
In 2013 a lot of media coverage was given to unclassified NSA's study in Cryptologic Spectrum that concluded that Tito did not speak the language as a native, and had features of other Slavic languages 	In what year did the study in Cryptologic Spectrum come out?
However, the NSA's report was completely disproved by Croatian experts	Experts from what country disproved the NSA's report?
"As the Communist Party was outlawed in Yugoslavia starting on 30 December 1920, Josip Broz took on many assumed names during his activity within the Party, including ""Rudi"", ""Walter"", and ""Tito"	Starting in what year was the Communist Party outlawed in Yugoslavia?
Josip Broz Tito received a total of 119 awards and decorations from 60 countries around the world 	How many awards and decorations did Josip Broz Tito recieve?
After the Tito–Stalin split of 1948 and his inauguration as president in 1953, Tito rarely wore his uniform except when present in a military function, and then only wore his Yugoslav ribbons for obvious practical reasons	In what year did the Tito-Stalin split occur?
Some of the other foreign awards and decorations of Josip Broz Tito include Order of Merit, Order of Manuel Amador Guerrero, Order of Prince Henry, Order of Independence, Order of Merit, Order of the Nile, Order of the Condor of the Andes, Order of the Star of Romania, Order of the Gold Lion of the House of Nassau, Croix de Guerre, Order of the Cross of Grunwald, Czechoslovak War Cross, Decoration of Honour for Services to the Republic of Austria, Military Order of the White Lion, Nishan-e-Pakistan, Order of Al Rafidain, Order of Carol I, Order of Georgi Dimitrov, Order of Karl Marx, Order of Manuel Amador Guerrero, Order of Michael the Brave, Order of Pahlavi, Order of Sukhbaatar, Order of Suvorov, Order of the Liberator, Order of the October Revolution, Order of the Queen of Sheba, Order of the White Rose of Finland, Partisan Cross, Royal Order of Cambodia and Star of People's Friendship and Thiri Thudhamma Thingaha	Tito was awarded the Star of what country?
The Marshall Islands, officially the Republic of the Marshall Islands , is an island country located near the equator in the Pacific Ocean, slightly west of the International Date Line	What is the name of the Marshall Islands in its native language?
Micronesian colonists gradually settled the Marshall Islands during the 2nd millennium BC, with inter-island navigation made possible using traditional stick charts	Who were the original settlers of the area that became the Marshall Islands?
The European powers recognized the islands as part of the Spanish East Indies in 1874	In what year did the Marshall Islands gain official recognition by the major European nations?
Politically, the Marshall Islands is a presidential republic in free association with the United States, with the US providing defense, subsidies, and access to U	What term describes the type of government of the Marshall Islands?
The majority of the citizens of the Marshall Islands are of Marshallese descent, though there are small numbers of immigrants from the United States, China, Philippines and other Pacific islands	What is the ethnicity of most people living in the Marshall Islands?
Micronesians settled the Marshall Islands in the 2nd millennium BC, but there are no historical or oral records of that period	Who arrived at the Marshall Islands in the second millennium BC?
Spanish explorer Alonso de Salazar was the first European to see the islands in 1526, commanding the ship Santa Maria de la Victoria, the only surviving vessel of the Loaísa Expedition	Which European first saw the Marshall Islands?
On September 21, 1529, Álvaro de Saavedra Cerón commanded the Spanish ship Florida, on his second attempt to recross the Pacific from the Maluku Islands	Whose ship was named Florida?
"The Spanish ship San Pedro and two other vessels in an expedition commanded by Miguel López de Legazpi discovered an island on January 9, 1530, possibly Mejit, at 10°N, which they named ""Los Barbudos"""	What was the name given to the island reached by Miguel Lopez de Legazpi on January 9th of 1530?
Captain John Charles Marshall and Thomas Gilbert visited the islands in 1788	Who arrived at the Marshall Islands in 1788?
In 1834, Captain DonSette and his crew were killed	Who was the leader of the group attacked by the people of the Marshall Islands in 1834?
Although the Spanish Empire had a residual claim on the Marshalls in 1874, when she began asserting her sovereignty over the Carolines, she made no effort to prevent the German Empire from gaining a foothold there	What nation had a claim on the Marshall Islands as of 1874?
Subsequently, seven other chiefs on seven other islands signed a treaty in German and Marshallese and a final copy witnessed by Rötger on November 1 was sent to the German Foreign Office	On what day was a final treaty signed between the Marshall Islands chiefs and the Germans?
A German trading company, the Jaluit Gesellschaft, administered the islands from 1887 until 1905	What company ran the Marshall Islands in the late 19th century?
Erdland, from the Sacred Heart Jesu Society based in Hiltrup, Germany, lived on Jaluit from around 1904 to 1914	What Catholic group was Father Erdland a part of?
After the Meiji Restoration , the Japanese government adopted a policy of turning the Japanese Empire into a great economic and military power in East Asia	What notable historical event occurred in Japan in 1868?
On September 29, 1914, Japanese troops occupied the Enewetak Atoll, and on September 30, 1914, the Jaluit Atoll, the administrative centre of the Marshall Islands	On what date did the Japanese land on Enewetak?
During its years of colonial rule, Japan moved more than 1,000 Japanese to the Marshall Islands although they never outnumbered the indigenous peoples as they did in the Mariana Islands and Palau	About how many Japanese emigrated to the Marshalls when it was a Japanese colony?
Japan also tried to change the social organization in the islands from Matrilineality to the Japanese Patriarchal system, but with no success	What was the traditional social organization of the Marshall Islanders?
In the months before the attack on Pearl Harbor, Kwajalein Atoll was the administrative center of the Japanese 6th Fleet Forces Service, whose task was the defense of the Marshall Islands	What Japanese fleet was based in the Marshall Islands?
In World War II, the United States, during the Gilbert and Marshall Islands campaign, invaded and occupied the islands in 1944, destroying or isolating the Japanese garrisons	During what conflict did the US occupy the Marshall Islands?
attacks started in mid-1943, and caused half the Japanese garrison of 5,100 people in the atoll Mili to die from hunger by August 1945	In what year did American air attacks on the Marshalls begin?
Following capture and occupation by the United States during World War II, the Marshall Islands, along with several other island groups located in Micronesia, passed formally to the United States under United Nations auspices in 1947 as part of the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands established pursuant to Security Council Resolution 21	During what conflict did the US occupy the Marshalls?
During the early years of the Cold War from 1946 to 1958, the United States tested 67 nuclear weapons at its Pacific Proving Grounds located in the Marshall Islands, including the largest atmospheric nuclear test ever conducted by the U	In what year did the Cold War begin?
From 1956 to August 1998, at least $759 million was paid to the Marshallese Islanders in compensation for their exposure to U	When did the United States begin to pay compensation to Marshall Islanders for nuclear weapon exposure?
In 1986, the Compact of Free Association with the United States entered into force, granting the Republic of the Marshall Islands its sovereignty	What document granted sovereignty to the Marshall Islands?
In 2008, extreme waves and high tides caused widespread flooding in the capital city of Majuro and other urban centres, 3 feet (0	What is the capital of the Marshall Islands?
In 2013, the northern atolls of the Marshall Islands experienced drought	What part of the Marshall Islands experienced drought in 2013?
1	In the drought stricken areas, how many litres of water did residents consume each day?
Following the 2013 emergencies, the Minister of Foreign Affairs Tony de Brum was encouraged by the Obama administration in the United States to turn the crises into an opportunity to promote action against climate change	As of 2013, who was the Marshall Islands Minister of Foreign Affairs?
The government of the Marshall Islands operates under a mixed parliamentary-presidential system as set forth in its Constitution	What is the governing system of the Marshall Islands?
The upper house of Parliament, called the Council of Iroij, is an advisory body comprising twelve tribal chiefs	What is the name of the upper house of the Marshall Islands Parliament?
The Compact of Free Association with the United States gives the U	What document governs the defense of the Marshall Islands?
The Marshall Islands was admitted to the United Nations based on the Security Council's recommendation on August 9, 1991, in Resolution 704 and the General Assembly's approval on September 17, 1991, in Resolution 46/3	When did the UN Security Council recommend that the Marshall Islands be allowed to join the UN?
On 28 April 2015, the Iranian navy seized the Marshall Island-flagged MV Maersk Tigris near the Strait of Hormuz	On what date did the Iranian Navy capture a Marshall Islands ship?
The islands are located about halfway between Hawaii and Australia, north of Nauru and Kiribati, east of the Federated States of Micronesia, and south of the U	What nation lies to the west of the Marshall Islands?
In October 2011, the government declared that an area covering nearly 2,000,000 square kilometres of ocean shall be reserved as a shark sanctuary	How large is the Marshall Islands shark sanctuary in square miles?
The Marshall Islands also lays claim to Wake Island	What island do the Marshall Islands claim?
The climate is hot and humid, with a wet season from May to November	When does the wet season in the Marshalls begin?
Due to its very low elevation, the Marshall Islands are threatened by the potential effects of sea level rise	What feature makes the Marshalls susceptible to harm due to rising sea levels?
The northern atolls get 50 inches of rainfall annually; the southern atolls about twice that	How many millimeters of rain do the northern atolls of the Marshall Islands receive?
In 2007, the Marshall Islands joined the International Labour Organization, which means its labour laws will comply with international benchmarks	What body did the Marshall Islands join in 2007?
Under terms of the Amended Compact of Free Association, the U	What document defines how much money is transferred from the United States to the Marshall Islands?
The United States Army maintains the Ronald Reagan Ballistic Missile Defense Test Site on Kwajalein Atoll	On what atoll is a missile test facility based?
 The most important commercial crops are coconuts, tomatoes, melons, and breadfruit	Along with coconuts, tomatoes and melons, what crops are notably grown in the Marshalls?
In 1999, a private company built a tuna loining plant with more than 400 employees, mostly women	In what year was a tuna loining plant constructed?
On September 15, 2007, Witon Barry said power authorities, private companies, and entrepreneurs had been experimenting with coconut oil as alternative to diesel fuel for vehicles, power generators, and ships	Who did Witon Barry work for?
In 1862, the population was estimated at about 10,000	About how many people lived in the Marshall Islands in 1862?
Most of the residents are Marshallese, who are of Micronesian origin and migrated from Asia several thousand years ago	What is the ethnicity of most Marshall Islands residents?
Major religious groups in the Republic of the Marshall Islands include the United Church of Christ , with 51	What was the previous name of the United Church of Christ?
The Ministry of Education operates the state schools in the Marshall Islands	What body operates the state schools in the Marshall Islands?
The Marshall Islands are served by the Marshall Islands International Airport in Majuro, the Bucholz Army Airfield in Kwajalein, and other small airports and airstrips	Where is the Marshall Islands International Airport located?
The szlachta , exonym: Nobility) was a legally privileged noble class with origins in the Kingdom of Poland	What class was slackta in Poland?
":207 Traditionally, its members were owners of landed property, often in the form of ""manor farms"" or so-called folwarks"	What is another name for folwarks?
During the Partitions of Poland from 1772 to 1795, its members began to lose these legal privileges and social status	When, during the partitions of Poland, did the szlachta lose legal and social status. 
The notion that all Polish nobles were social equals, regardless of their financial status or offices held, is enshrined in a traditional Polish saying:	What was the notion for all polish nobles?
"The term szlachta is derived from the Old High German word slahta , which means "" family"", much as many other Polish words pertaining to the nobility derive from German words—e"	What german word does the term szlachta come from?
"Poles of the 17th century assumed that ""szlachta"" came from the German ""schlachten"" ; also suggestive is the German ""Schlacht"" "	What did the poles of the 17th century think the term szlachta came from?
P	What does schlachtan mean in german?
"Some powerful Polish nobles were referred to as ""magnates"" and ""możny"" ; see Magnates of Poland and Lithuania"	What were some powerful Polish nobles referred too?
"The Polish term ""szlachta"" designated the formalized, hereditary noble class of Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth"	What term designated the noble class of polish Lithuania common wealth?
"Today the word szlachta in the Polish language simply translates to ""nobility"""	What simple word does the term szlachta translate too?
The szlachta included those almost rich and powerful enough to be magnates down to rascals with a noble lineage, no land, no castle, no money, no village, and no peasants	Why did the mistranslation of szlachta come about?
In doing so, however, these szlachta retained all their constitutional prerogatives, as it was not wealth or lifestyle , but hereditary juridical status, that determined nobility	What ultimately determined nobility?
The origins of the szlachta, while ancient, have always been considered obscure	Have the origins of the szlachta been clear or obscure?
This hypothesis states this upper class was not of Slavonic extraction:482 and was of a different origin than the Slavonic peasants :430 :118 over which they ruled	In this theory, what was the upper class?
The documentation regarding Raciborz and Albert's tenure is the earliest surviving of the use of the clan name and cry defining the honorable status of Polish knights	WHat is the earliest surviving use of the clan name of the polish knights?
Around the 14th century, there was little difference between knights and the szlachta in Poland	Around what time were the knights and szlachta very similiar?
Concerning the early Polish tribes, geography contributed to long-standing traditions	What contributed to the long standing traditions?
The tribes were ruled by clans consisting of people related by blood or marriage and theoretically descending from a common ancestor, giving the ród/clan a highly developed sense of solidarity	What ruled over the tribes?
Mieszko I of Poland (c	WHo established an elite knightly retinue?
M	How long was Miesko I of Poland reigning?
"A Polish nobleman living at the time prior to the 15th century was referred to as a ""rycerz"", very roughly equivalent to the English ""knight,"" the critical difference being the status of ""rycerz"" was almost strictly hereditary; the class of all such individuals was known as the ""rycerstwo"""	WHat was a polish nobleman referred to as before the 15th century?
, 1314, which included nearly 200 years of feudal fragmentation and which stemmed from Bolesław III's division of Poland among his sons, was the genesis of the social structure which saw the economic elevation of the great landowning feudal nobles from the rycerstwo they originated from	What stemmed the period of division?
Some możni descending from past tribal dynasties regarded themselves as co-proprietors of Piast realms, even though the Piasts attempted to deprive them of their independence	What did some Mozni regard themselves with?
In Lithuania Propria and in Samogitia prior to the creation of the Kingdom of Lithuania by Mindaugas, nobles were named die beste leuten in sources that were written in German language	WHat were nobles named in german language?
After the Union of Horodło the Lithuanian nobility acquired equal status with the Polish szlachta, and over time began to become more and more polonized, although they did preserve their national consciousness, and in most cases recognition of their Lithuanian family roots	What other group had equal status with the lithuanian nobility?
At first only the highest members of the nobility were involved, although gradually a wider group of the population was affected	WHo was first invloved in the polonization?
In Ruthenia the nobility gradually gravitated its loyalty towards the multicultural and multilingual Grand Duchy of Lithuania after the principalities of Halych and Volhynia became a part of it	What group did the Nobility of Ruthenia gravitate its loyalty towards?
The Orthodox nobles' rights were nominally equal to those enjoyed by Polish and Lithuanian nobility, but there was a cultural pressure to convert to Catholicism, that was greatly eased in 1596 by the Union of Brest	What other rights were equal to orthodox nobles?
Initially, this privilege could be granted by monarch, but from the 1641 onward, this right was reserved for the sejm	Before 1641 the privileged ennoblement was granted by what?
According to heraldic sources total number of legal ennoblements issued between the 14th century and the mid-18th century, is estimated at approximately 800	Around what time was the total legal number of ennoblement at 800?
According to heraldic sources 1,600 is a total estimated number of all legal ennoblements throughout the history of Kingdom of Poland and Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth from the 14th century onward 	What was the toalt number of legal ennoblements thoughout history of poland and polish commonwealth
In the late 14th century, in the Grand Duchy of Lithuania, Vytautas the Great reformed the Grand Duchy's army: instead of calling all men to arms, he created forces comprising professional warriors—bajorai 	WHo reformed the grand duchy army?
Significant legislative changes in the status of the szlachta, as defined by Robert Bideleux and Ian Jeffries, consist of its 1374 exemption from the land tax, a 1425 guarantee against the 'arbitrary arrests and/or seizure of property' of its members, a 1454 requirement that military forces and new taxes be approved by provincial Sejms, and statutes issued between 1496 and 1611 that prescribed the rights of commoners	Who defined the significant legislative changes?
Nobles were born into a noble family, adopted by a noble family or ennobled by a king or Sejm for various reasons (bravery in combat, service to the state, etc	What was a rarest rare to become a noble?
The Polish nobility enjoyed many rights that were not available to the noble classes of other countries and, typically, each new monarch conceded them further privileges	THe polish nobility had many positives compared to others including what?
Poland's successive kings granted privileges to the nobility at the time of their election to the throne and at other times in exchange for ad hoc permission to raise an extraordinary tax or a pospolite ruszenie	When did kings grant privileges to the nobles?
In 1355 in Buda King Casimir III the Great issued the first country-wide privilege for the nobility, in exchange for their agreement that in the lack of Casimir's male heirs, the throne would pass to his nephew, Louis I of Hungary	When did buda king casimir issue the heir to his nephew?
In 1374 King Louis of Hungary approved the Privilege of Koszyce in Košice in order to guarantee the Polish throne for his daughter Jadwiga	When did King Louis of Hungary approve the privilege of Koszyce?
In 1422 King Władysław II Jagiełło by the Privilege of Czerwińsk established the inviolability of nobles' property and ceded some jurisdiction over fiscal policy to the Royal Council , including the right to mint coinage	Who establishd the inviolability of nobles property?
"In 1430 with the Privileges of Jedlnia, confirmed at Kraków in 1433 , based partially on his earlier Brześć Kujawski privilege , King Władysław II Jagiełło granted the nobility a guarantee against arbitrary arrest, similar to the English Magna Carta's Habeas corpus, known from its own Latin name as ""neminem captivabimus "	Where did the confirmation of privileges of Jedlnia take place?
In 1454 King Casimir IV granted the Nieszawa Statutes , clarifying the legal basis of voivodship sejmiks 	When were the Nieszawa statutes granted?
"The first ""free election"" of a king took place in 1492"	When did the first free election take place?
On April 26, 1496 King John I Albert granted the Privilege of Piotrków , increasing the nobility's feudal power over serfs	Who granted the privilege of Piotrkow?
On 23 October 1501, at Mielnik Polish–Lithuanian union was reformed at the Union of Mielnik 	When did the Mielnik Polish–Lithuanian union reform?
"On 3 May 1505 King Alexander I Jagiellon granted the Act of ""Nihil novi nisi commune consensu"" "	"When did the Act of ""Nihil novi nisi commune consensu"" happen?"
"About that time the ""executionist movement"" began to take form"	What was the movement called also known as execution of laws?
Until the death of Sigismund II Augustus, the last king of the Jagiellonian dynasty, monarchs could be elected from within only the royal family	Who was the last king of the Jagiellonian dynasty?
In 1578 king Stefan Batory created the Crown Tribunal in order to reduce the enormous pressure on the Royal Court	The crown tribunal was created when?
For many centuries, wealthy and powerful members of the szlachta sought to gain legal privileges over their peers	What did powerful leaders of szlachta sought?
Some historians estimate the number of magnates as 1% of the number of szlachta	Historians estimate how much of magnates make up szlachta?
Magnates often received gifts from monarchs, which significantly increased their wealth	Magnates recieved gifts often from who?
One of the most important victories of the magnates was the late 16th century right to create ordynacja's , which ensured that a family which gained wealth and power could more easily preserve this	The right to create ordynacja's was important to what group?
The sovereignty of szlachta was ended in 1795 by Partitions of Poland, and until 1918 their legal status was dependent on policies of the Russian Empire, the Kingdom of Prussia or the Habsburg Monarchy	When did the sovereignty of szlachta end?
In the 1840s Nicholas I reduced 64,000 szlachta to commoner status	Who redused 64,000 szlachta to commoner status?
The most important difference was that, while in most European countries the nobility lost power as the ruler strove for absolute monarchy, in Poland the reverse process occurred: the nobility actually gained power at the expense of the king, and the political system evolved into an oligarchy	What was different between the polish nobility and others?
Poland's nobility were also more numerous than those of all other European countries, constituting some 10–12% of the total population of historic Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth also some 10–12% among ethnic Poles on ethnic Polish lands , but up to 25% of all Poles worldwide , while in some poorer regions (e	How much of the total population was polish common wealth?
Poland's nobility was not a rigidly exclusive, closed class	What class was polands nobility?
All children of the Polish nobility inherited their noble status from a noble mother and father	Children inherited polish nobility from whom?
In theory at least, all Polish noblemen were social equals	In theory how were all polish noblemen viewed?
Note that the Polish landed gentry was composed of any nobility that owned lands: thus of course the magnates, the middle nobility and that lesser nobility that had at least part of the village	Who could compose the polish landed gentry?
Coats of arms were very important to the Polish nobility	What was very important to the polish nobility?
The most notable difference is that, contrary to other European heraldic systems, the Jews, Muslim Tatars or another minorities would be given the noble title	What is the most notable difference between countries?
Also, the brisure was rarely used	What was rarely used?
"The szlachta's prevalent mentality and ideology were manifested in ""Sarmatism"", a name derived from a myth of the szlachta's origin in the powerful ancient nation of Sarmatians"	What was the prevalent mentality and ideology called? 
Prior to the Reformation, the Polish nobility were mostly either Roman Catholic or Orthodox with a small group of Muslims	What two religions were most common?
roː]; October 15, 70 BC – September 21, 19 BC), usually called Virgil or Vergil /ˈvɜːrdʒᵻl/ in English, was an ancient Roman poet of the Augustan period	During which period was Vigil a poet?
His Aeneid has been considered the national epic of ancient Rome from the time of its composition to the present day	Which of Virgil's works is considered the national epic of ancient Rome?
Virgil's biographical tradition is thought to depend on a lost biography by Varius, Virgil's editor, which was incorporated into the biography by Suetonius and the commentaries of Servius and Donatus, the two great commentators on Virgil's poetry	Who was Virgil's editor?
The tradition holds that Virgil was born in the village of Andes, near Mantua in Cisalpine Gaul	In which village does tradition believe Virgil was born?
According to the commentators, Virgil received his first education when he was five years old and he later went to Cremona, Milan, and finally Rome to study rhetoric, medicine, and astronomy, which he soon abandoned for philosophy	Which three studies did Virgil abandon for philosophy?
The Eclogues are a group of ten poems roughly modeled on the bucolic hexameter poetry of the Hellenistic poet Theocritus	Which Hellenistic poet was known for bucolic hexameter poetry?
Virgil came to know many of the other leading literary figures of the time, including Horace, in whose poetry he is often mentioned, and Varius Rufus, who later helped finish the Aeneid	Who helped finish the Aeneid?
At Maecenas' insistence Virgil spent the ensuing years on the long didactic hexameter poem called the Georgics which he dedicated to Maecenas	Which long didactic hexameter poem did Virgil work on for several years?
Virgil and Maecenas are said to have taken turns reading the Georgics to Octavian upon his return from defeating Antony and Cleopatra at the Battle of Actium in 31 BC	Octavian defeated Antony and Cleopatra at which battle?
The Aeneid is widely considered Virgil's finest work and one of the most important poems in the history of western literature	Which of Virgil's works is widely considered his finest?
Book 1 opens with a storm which Juno, Aeneas' enemy throughout the poem, stirs up against the fleet	Who is Aeneas' enemy throughout the Aeneid?
Book 7 opens with an address to the muse and recounts Aeneas' arrival in Italy and betrothal to Lavinia, daughter of King Latinus	To whom is Aeneas betrothed?
7	How many years did the war last?
The Aeneid is full of prophecies about the future of Rome, the deeds of Augustus, his ancestors, and famous Romans, and the Carthaginian Wars; the shield of Aeneas even depicts Augustus' victory at Actium against Mark Antony and Cleopatra VII in 31 BC	When did Augustus' victory at Actium against Mark Antony and Ceopatra VII occur?
Virgil is said to have recited Books 2, 4, and 6 to Augustus; and Book 6 apparently caused Augustus' sister Octavia to faint	Which book supposedly caused Augustus' sister to faint?
4	How many paintings did Jean-Baptiste Wicar base on Virgil's life?
According to the tradition, Virgil traveled to Greece in about 19 BC to revise the Aeneid	According to tradition, where did Virgil travel in 19 BC to revise the Aeneid?
""" In Silius Italicus, Virgil finds one of his most ardent admirers"	Who was one of Virgil's most ardent admirers who referenced Virgil in almost every line of his epic?
"Gregory of Tours read Virgil, whom he quotes in several places, along with some other Latin poets, though he cautions that ""we ought not to relate their lying fables, lest we fall under sentence of eternal death"	"Who cautioned ""we ought not to relate their lying fables, lest we fall under sentence of eternal death""?"
Dante made Virgil his guide in Hell and the greater part of Purgatory in The Divine Comedy	In which of Dante's works was Virgil a guide through Hell and Purgatory?
From at least the 3rd century, Christian thinkers interpreted Eclogues 4, which describes the birth of a boy ushering in a golden age, as a prediction of Jesus' birth	Which of Virgil's works was said by some to have predicted Jesus' birth?
In the 12th century, starting around Naples but eventually spreading widely throughout Europe, a tradition developed in which Virgil was regarded as a great magician	Where did the tradition start which regarded Virgil as a great magician?
The legend of Virgil in his Basket arose in the Middle Ages, and is often seen in art and mentioned in literature as part of the Power of Women literary topos, demonstrating the disruptive force of female attractiveness on men	During which time period did the legend of Virgil in his Basket arise?
While Virgil was already the object of literary admiration and veneration before his death, in the Middle Ages his name became associated with miraculous powers, and for a couple of centuries his tomb was the destination of pilgrimages and veneration	During which time period did Virgil's name become associated with miraclous powers?
In the Late Empire and Middle Ages Vergilius was spelled Virgilius	Besides Virgilius, which other spelling is permitted in modern usage?
The Alps ; French: Alpes ; German: Alpen ; Slovene: Alpe ) are the highest and most extensive mountain range system that lies entirely in Europe, stretching approximately 1,200 kilometres across eight Alpine countries: Austria, France, Germany, Italy, Liechtenstein, Monaco, Slovenia, and Switzerland	What Country are the Alps located in?
The altitude and size of the range affects the climate in Europe; in the mountains precipitation levels vary greatly and climatic conditions consist of distinct zones	What affects the climate in Europe? 
A mummified man, determined to be 5,000 years old, was discovered on a glacier at the Austrian–Italian border in 1991	How old was the mummified man discovered at the Austrian-Italian bored?
At present the region is home to 14 million people and has 120 million annual visitors	The alps is home to how many people?
The English word Alps derives from the Latin Alpes 	The English word Alps derives from what Latin Word? 
This may be consistent with the theory that in Greek Alpes is a name of non-Indo-European origin 	There is a theory that in Greek Alpes is a name of what origin? 
It's likely that alb and albus have common origins deriving from the association of the tops of tall mountains or steep hills with snow	Alb can also mean what? 
In modern languages the term alp, alm, albe or alpe refers to a grazing pastures in the alpine regions below the glaciers, not the peaks	The term alp, alm, albe or alpe refers to what in modern languages? 
The Alps are a crescent shaped geographic feature of central Europe that ranges in a 800 km arc from east to west and is 200 km in width	What are the crescent shaped geographic feature of central Europe?
The highest portion of the range is divided by the glacial trough of the Rhone valley, with the Pennine Alps from Mont Blanc to the Matterhorn and Monte Rosa on the southern side, and the Bernese Alps on the northern	The highest portion of the Alp's range is divided by what? 
The variances in nomenclature in the region spanned by the Alps makes classification of the mountains and subregions difficult, but a general classification is that of the Eastern Alps and Western Alps with the divide between the two occurring in eastern Switzerland according to geologist Stefan Schmid, near the Splügen Pass	What makes the classification of the mountains and subregions difficult?
The highest peaks of the Western Alps and Eastern Alps, respectively, are Mont Blanc, at 4,810 m and Piz Bernina at 4,049 metres 	The highest peak of the Western Alps is where? 
Series of lower mountain ranges run parallel to the main chain of the Alps, including the French Prealps in France and the Jura Mountains in Switzerland and France	Where are the French Prealps located? 
The Alps have been crossed for war and commerce, and by pilgrims, students and tourists	What have been crossed for war and commerce? 
Crossing the Italian-Austrian border, the Brenner Pass separates the Ötztal Alps and Zillertal Alps and has been in use as a trading route since the 14th century	What seperates the Otztal Alps and Zillertal Alps?
Important geological concepts were established as naturalists began studying the rock formations of the Alps in the 18th century	Who began studying the rock formations of the Alps
The formation of the Alps was an episodic process that began about 300 million years ago	When did the formation of the alps began?
Under extreme compressive stresses and pressure, marine sedimentary rocks were uplifted, creating characteristic recumbent folds, or nappes, and thrust faults	What was uplifted from extreme compressive stresses and pressure? 
The Alpine orogeny occurred in ongoing cycles through to the Paleogene causing differences in nappe structures, with a late-stage orogeny causing the development of the Jura Mountains	What caused the development of the Jura Mountains? 
According to geologist Stefan Schmid, because the Western Alps underwent a metamorphic event in the Cenozoic Era while the Austroalpine peaks underwent an event in the Cretaceous Period, the two areas show distinct differences in nappe formations	What is Stefan Schmid's profession?
"Peaks in France, Italy and Switzerland lie in the ""Houillière zone"", which consists of basement with sediments from the Mesozoic Era"	What area do peaks in France, Italy, and Switzerland lie in? 
In simple terms the structure of the Alps consists of layers of rock of European, African and oceanic origin	Layers of rock from Europe, Africa and the ocean make up what?
The core regions of the Alpine orogenic belt have been folded and fractured in such a manner that erosion created the characteristic steep vertical peaks of the Swiss Alps that rise seemingly straight out of the foreland areas	What happened to the Alpine orogenic belt that gave it the steep vertical peak?
"The Union Internationale des Associations d'Alpinisme has defined a list of 82 ""official"" Alpine summits that reach at least 4,000 m "	What group defined a list of 82 official Apline summits that reach 4,000m?
While Mont Blanc was first climbed in 1786, most of the Alpine four-thousanders were climbed during the first half of the 19th century; the ascent of the Matterhorn in 1865 marked the end of the golden age of alpinism	When was Mont Blanc first climbed?
The first British Mont Blanc ascent was in 1788; the first female ascent in 1819	When was the first British Mont Blanc ascent? 
The Alps are a source of minerals that have been mined for thousands of years	What have been mined in the Alps for thousands of years? 
Alpine crystals have been studied and collected for hundreds of years, and began to be classified in the 18th century	How long have Alpine crystals been studied and collected? 
In the Miocene Epoch the mountains underwent severe erosion because of glaciation, which was noted in the mid-19th century by naturalist Louis Agassiz who presented a paper proclaiming the Alps were covered in ice at various intervals—a theory he formed when studying rocks near his Neuchâtel home which he believed originated to the west in the Bernese Oberland	Where did the mountains undergo serve erosion?
Agassiz studied glacier movement in the 1840s at the Unteraar Glacier where he found the glacier moved 100 m per year, more rapidly in the middle than at the edges	Where did Agassiz study during the 1840s?
The Inn valley is an example of a valley carved by glaciers during the ice ages with a typical terraced structure caused by erosion	What is an example of a valley carved by glaciers during the ice ages? 
Alpine glaciers can be straight rivers of ice, long sweeping rivers, spread in a fan-like shape , and curtains of ice that hang from vertical slopes of the mountain peaks	How do Piedmont glaciers appear?
Sometimes a piece of glacier will detach or break resulting in flooding, property damage and loss of life	What causes flooding, property damage, and loss of life?
High levels of precipitation cause the glaciers to descend to permafrost levels in some areas whereas in other, more arid regions, glaciers remain above about the 3,500 m level	What cause the glaciers to descend to permafrost levels in some areas? 
The Alps provide lowland Europe with drinking water, irrigation, and hydroelectric power	What provides Europe with drinking water, irrigation, and hydroelectric power?
Major European rivers flow from Switzerland, such as the Rhine, the Rhone, the Inn, the Ticino and the Po, all of which have headwaters in the Alps and flow into neighbouring countries, finally emptying into the North Sea, the Mediterranean Sea, the Adriatic Sea and the Black Sea	The Rhine, the Rhone, the Inn, the Ticino and the Po rivers flow from what Country?
In Germany, the medieval St	Where is the medieval St. Bartholomew Chapel located?
Scientists have been studying the impact of climate change and water use	Who have been studying the impact of climate change and water use?
The Alps are a classic example of what happens when a temperate area at lower altitude gives way to higher-elevation terrain	What are a classic example of what happens when a temperate area at lower altitude gives way to higher-elevation terrain?
The severe weather in the Alps has been studied since the 18th century; particularly the weather patterns such as the seasonal foehn wind	Since when has the severe weather in the Alps been studied? 
The areas that are not arid and receive high precipitation experience periodic flooding from rapid snowmelt and runoff	What areas experience periodic flooding from rapid snowmelt and runoff?
The Alps are split into five climatic zones, each with different vegetation	How many zones are the Alps split into?
Various models of climate change have been projected into the 22nd century for the Alps, with an expectation that a trend toward increased temperatures will have an effect on snowfall, snowpack, glaciation, and river runoff	What has been projected into the 22nd century for the Alps?
Thirteen thousand species of plants have been identified in the Alpine regions	How many species of plants have been identified in the Alpine regions?
Above the forestry, there is often a band of short pine trees , which is in turn superseded by Alpenrosen, dwarf shrubs, typically Rhododendron ferrugineum or Rhododendron hirsutum 	What is often above the forestry?
Alpine plants such the Alpine gentian grow in abundance in areas such as the meadows above the Lauterbrunnental	What grows in abundance in areas such as the meadows above the Lauterbrunnental?
At these higher altitudes, the plants tend to form isolated cushions	What do the plants tend to form at higher altitudes? 
The extreme and stressful climatic conditions give way to the growth of plant species with secondary metabolites important for medicinal purposes	What gives way to the growth of plant species with secondary metabolites important for medicinal purposes?
Human interference has nearly exterminated the trees in many areas, and, except for the beech forests of the Austrian Alps, forests of deciduous trees are rarely found after the extreme deforestation between the 17th and 19th centuries	What has nearly exterminated the trees in many areas?
The Alps are a habitat for 30,000 species of wildlife, ranging from the tiniest snow fleas to brown bears, many of which have made adaptations to the harsh cold conditions and high altitudes to the point that some only survive in specific micro-climates either directly above or below the snow line	How many species of wildlife habitat the Alps?
The largest mammal to live in the highest altitudes are the alpine ibex, which have been sighted as high as 3,000 m 	What is the largest mammal to live in the highest altitudes?
Many rodents such as voles live underground	Where do many rodents live?
Reptiles such as adders and vipers live up to the snow line; because they cannot bear the cold temperatures they hibernate underground and soak up the warmth on rocky ledges	Why do reptiles only live up to the snow line?
A number of species of moths live in the Alps, some of which are believed to have evolved in the same habitat up to 120 million years ago, long before the Alps were created	How long have some species of moths believed to have evolved from the same habitat?
Some of the species of moths and insects show evidence of having been indigenous to the area from as long ago as the Alpine orogeny	Some species of moths and insects show evidence of what?
About 10,000 years ago, when the ice melted after the last glacial period, late Paleolithic communities were established along the lake shores and in cave systems	When were late Paleolithic communities established along the lake shores?
In 1991 a mummy of a neolithic body, known as Ötzi the Iceman, was discovered by hikers on the Similaun glacier	Who was Otzi the Iceman?
Celtic tribes settled in Switzerland between 1000 to 1500 BC	When did Celtic tribes settle in Switzerland? 
During the Second Punic War in 218 BC, the Carthaginian general Hannibal probably crossed the Alps with an army numbering 38,000 infantry, 8,000 cavalry, and 37 war elephants	When was the Second Punic War?
The Roman expansion brought the defeat of the Allobrogi in 121 BC and during the Gallic Wars in 58 BC Julius Caesar overcame the Helvetii	What brought the defeat of the Allobrogi?
Christianity was established in the region by the Romans, and saw the establishment of monasteries and churches in the high regions	Who established Christianity in the region?
Much of the medieval period was a time of power struggles between competing dynasties such as the House of Savoy, the Visconti in northern Italy and the House of Habsburg in Austria and Slovenia	Much of the medieval period was a time of what?
During the Napoleonic Wars in the late 18th century and early 19th century, Napoleon annexed territory formerly controlled by the Habsburgs and Savoys	What wars took place during the late 18th century and early 19th century?
After the fall of Napoléon, many alpine countries developed heavy protections to prevent any new invasion	When did many alpine countries develop heavy protection to prevent new invasion?
In the 19th century, the monasteries built in the high Alps during the medieval period to shelter travelers and as places of pilgrimage, became tourist destinations	What became tourist destinations during the 19th century?
Radiocarbon dated charcoal placed around 50,000 years ago was found in the Drachloch cave above the village of Vattis in the canton of St	How old was the charcoal placed in the Drachloch cave?
Charles VII of France ordered his chamberlain to climb Mont Aiguille in 1356	Where was Charles VII from?
"Conrad Gessner was the first naturalist to ascend the mountains in the 16th century, to study them, writing that in the mountains he found the ""theatre of the Lord"""	Who was the first naturalist to ascend the mountains?
Jean-Jacques Rousseau was the first of many to present the Alps as a place of allure and beauty, banishing the prevalent conception of the mountains as a hellish wasteland inhabited by demons	Who was the first of many to present the Alps as a place of allure and beauty?
In 1816 Byron, Percy Bysshe Shelley and his wife Mary Shelley visited Geneva and all three were inspired by the scenery in their writings	Percy and Mary Shelley were inspired by what region's scenery?
Austrian-born Adolf Hitler had a lifelong romantic fascination with the Alps and by the 1930s established a home in the Obersalzberg region outside of Berchtesgaden	Where was Adolf Hitler born?
By 1940 the Third Reich had occupied many of the Alpine countries	By 1940 who occupied many of the Alpine countries?
Ski troops were trained for the war, and battles were waged in mountainous areas such as the battle at Riva Ridge in Italy, where the American 10th Mountain Division encountered heavy resistance in February 1945	Who were trained for the war?
The population of the region is 14 million spread across eight countries	What is the population of the Alpine region?
Much of the Alpine culture is unchanged since the medieval period when skills that guaranteed survival in the mountain valleys and in the highest villages became mainstays, leading to strong traditions of carpentry, woodcarving, baking and pastry-making, and cheesemaking	Much of what has not changed since the medieval period?
Farming had been a traditional occupation for centuries, although it became less dominant in the 20th century with the advent of tourism	What has been a traditional occupation for centuries?
Cheesemaking is an ancient tradition in most Alpine countries	What is an ancient tradition in most Alpine countries?
In the high villages people live in homes built according to medieval designs that withstand cold winters	What do people in high villages build their homes according to?
Food is passed from the kitchen to the stube, where the dining room table is placed	The food is passed from the kitchen to where? 
Roofs are traditionally constructed from Alpine rocks such as pieces of schist, gneiss or slate	What are roofs traditionally constructed from? 
At present the Alps are one of the more popular tourist destinations in the world with many resorts such Oberstdorf, in Bavaria, Saalbach in Austria, Davos in Switzerland, Chamonix in France, and Cortina d'Ampezzo in Italy recording more than a million annual visitors	What's one of the most popular tourist destinations in the world? 
The tourism industry began in the early 19th century when foreigners visited the Alps, traveled to the bases of the mountains to enjoy the scenery, and stayed at the spa-resorts	When did the tourism industry begin? 
In the first half of the 20th century the Olympic Winter Games were held three times in Alpine venues: the 1924 Winter Olympics in Chamonix, France; the 1928 Winter Olympics in St	Where were the Winter Olympics held in 1924?
I	When were the Winter Olympics held in Albertville, France? 
During the post-World War I period ski-lifts were built in Swiss and Austrian towns to accommodate winter visitors, but summer tourism continued to be important; by the mid-20th century the popularity of downhill skiing increased greatly as it became more accessible and in the 1970s several new villages were built in France devoted almost exclusively to skiing, such as Les Menuires	When were ski-lifts built in Swiss and Austrian towns?
The region is serviced by 4,200 km of roads used by 6 million vehicles	How much area is devoted to roads in the Alpine region?
Some high mountain villages, such as Avoriaz , Wengen, and Zermatt are accessible only by cable car or cog-rail trains, and are car free	Where is the village of Avoriaz located? 
Many passes are closed in winter	When are many passes in the Alps closed? 
:Glossary The transmission of genes to an organism's offspring is the basis of the inheritance of phenotypic traits	What is the basis of inheritance of phenotypic traits?
Genes can acquire mutations in their sequence, leading to different variants, known as alleles, in the population	What do mutations in a gene sequence lead to?
For example, regulatory regions of a gene can be far removed from its coding regions, and coding regions can be split into several exons	What can regulatory regions of a gene be far removed from?
The existence of discrete inheritable units was first suggested by Gregor Mendel 	Who first suggested the existence of discrete inheritable units?
Prior to Mendel's work, the dominant theory of heredity was one of blending inheritance, which suggested that each parent contributed fluids to the fertilisation process and that the traits of the parents blended and mixed to produce the offspring	What was the dominant theory of heredity prior to Mendel's work?
"The word gene is derived from the Ancient Greek word γένος meaning ""race, offspring"""	What ancient Greek word is the word 'gene' derived from?
Deoxyribonucleic acid was shown to be the molecular repository of genetic information by experiments in the 1940s to 1950s	What was shown to be the molecular repository of genetic information by experiments in the 1940s to 1950s?
In 1972, Walter Fiers and his team at the University of Ghent were the first to determine the sequence of a gene: the gene for Bacteriophage MS2 coat protein	When was the first sequence of a gene determined?
The theories developed in the 1930s and 1940s to integrate molecular genetics with Darwinian evolution are called the modern evolutionary synthesis, a term introduced by Julian Huxley	In what time span were the theories to integrate molecular genetic with Darwinian evolution developed?
The vast majority of living organisms encode their genes in long strands of DNA 	What do the vast majority of living organisms encode their genes in?
Two chains of DNA twist around each other to form a DNA double helix with the phosphate-sugar backbone spiralling around the outside, and the bases pointing inwards with adenine base pairing to thymine and guanine to cytosine	What is the backbone of a DNA double helix made of?
Due to the chemical composition of the pentose residues of the bases, DNA strands have directionality	What causes the directionality of DNA strands?
The expression of genes encoded in DNA begins by transcribing the gene into RNA, a second type of nucleic acid that is very similar to DNA, but whose monomers contain the sugar ribose rather than deoxyribose	How does the expression of genes encoded in DNA begin?
The total complement of genes in an organism or cell is known as its genome, which may be stored on one or more chromosomes	What is the total complement of genes in an organism or cell known as?
The majority of eukaryotic genes are stored on a set of large, linear chromosomes	Where are the majority of eukaryotic genes stored?
Prokaryotes typically store their genomes on a single large, circular chromosome	What are prokaryotes?
Whereas the chromosomes of prokaryotes are relatively gene-dense, those of eukaryotes often contain regions of DNA that serve no obvious function	What type of organism has relatively gene dense chromosomes?
The structure of a gene consists of many elements of which the actual protein coding sequence is often only a small part	Often, how large a part of the structure of a gene is the protein coding sequence?
Firstly, flanking the open reading frame, all genes contain a regulatory sequence that is required for their expression	What do all genes contain that is required for their expression?
These act by binding to transcription factors which then cause the DNA to loop so that the regulatory sequence become close to the RNA polymerase binding site	How do regulatory regions act?
The transcribed pre-mRNA contains untranslated regions at both ends which contain a ribosome binding site, terminator and start and stop codons	What is at both ends of the transcribed pre-mRNA?
Many prokaryotic genes are organized into operons, with multiple protein-coding sequences that are transcribed as a unit	What are most prokaryotic genes organized into?
Regulatory regions of a gene such as enhancers do not necessarily have to be close to the coding sequence on the linear molecule because the intervening DNA can be looped out to bring the gene and its regulatory region into proximity	What is an example of a regulatory region of a gene that does not have to close to the coding sequence?
This model has been refined since the discovery of genes that can encode multiple proteins by alternative splicing and coding sequences split in short section across the genome whose mRNAs are concatenated by trans-splicing	What discovery caused the model that one gene makes one protein to be refined?
A broad operational definition is sometimes used to encompass the complexity of these diverse phenomena, where a gene is defined as a union of genomic sequences encoding a coherent set of potentially overlapping functional products	What sort of definition can be used to conveniently encompass the complexity of diverse phenomena?
In all organisms, two steps are required to read the information encoded in a gene's DNA and produce the protein it specifies	How many steps are required to read the information encoded in a gene's DNA and produce the specified protein?
The nucleotide sequence of a gene's DNA specifies the amino acid sequence of a protein through the genetic code	What specifies the amino acid sequence of a protein?
Transcription produces a single-stranded RNA molecule known as messenger RNA, whose nucleotide sequence is complementary to the DNA from which it was transcribed	What does transcription produce?
In prokaryotes, transcription occurs in the cytoplasm; for very long transcripts, translation may begin at the 5' end of the RNA while the 3' end is still being transcribed	Where does transcription occur in prokaryotes?
Translation is the process by which a mature mRNA molecule is used as a template for synthesizing a new protein	What is the process by which a mature mRNA molecule is used as a template for synthesizing a new protein called?
Genes are regulated so that they are expressed only when the product is needed, since expression draws on limited resources	When are genes expressed?
A typical protein-coding gene is first copied into RNA as an intermediate in the manufacture of the final protein product	What is first copied into RNA as an intermediate in the manufacture of the final protein product?
Some viruses store their entire genomes in the form of RNA, and contain no DNA at all	In what form do some viruses store their entire genome?
Organisms inherit their genes from their parents	Where do organisms inherit their genes from?
According to Mendelian inheritance, variations in an organism's phenotype are due in part to variations in its genotype 	According to Mendelian inheritance, what is part of the cause of variations in an organism's phenotype?
Alleles at a locus may be dominant or recessive; dominant alleles give rise to their corresponding phenotypes when paired with any other allele for the same trait, whereas recessive alleles give rise to their corresponding phenotype only when paired with another copy of the same allele	Where can alleles be located in order to be either dominant or recessive?
The growth, development, and reproduction of organisms relies on cell division, or the process by which a single cell divides into two usually identical daughter cells	What does the growth, development, and reproduction of organisms rely on?
After DNA replication is complete, the cell must physically separate the two copies of the genome and divide into two distinct membrane-bound cells	What is one thing the cell must do once DNA replication is compete?
The duplication and transmission of genetic material from one generation of cells to the next is the basis for molecular inheritance, and the link between the classical and molecular pictures of genes	The duplication and transmission of genetic material from one generation of cells to the next is the basis for what?
During the process of meiotic cell division, an event called genetic recombination or crossing-over can sometimes occur, in which a length of DNA on one chromatid is swapped with a length of DNA on the corresponding sister chromatid	When can an event called genetic recombination or crossing-over sometimes occur?
DNA replication is for the most part extremely accurate, however errors do occur	What is it called when errors occur in DNA replication?
When multiple different alleles for a gene are present in a species's population it is called polymorphic	What is it called when multiple different alleles for a gene are present in a species's population?
Most mutations within genes are neutral, having no effect on the organism's phenotype 	What are mutations that have no effect on an organism's phenotype called?
Genes with a most recent common ancestor, and thus a shared evolutionary ancestry, are known as homologs	What are genes with a most recent common ancestor called?
The relationship between genes can be measured by comparing the sequence alignment of their DNA	What does comparing the sequence alignment of genes' DNA measure?
The most common source of new genes in eukaryotic lineages is gene duplication, which creates copy number variation of an existing gene in the genome	What is the most common source of new genes in eukaryotic lineages?
"De novo or ""orphan"" genes, whose sequence shows no similarity to existing genes, are extremely rare"	What is a gene whose sequence shows no similarity to existing genes called?
Horizontal gene transfer refers to the transfer of genetic material through a mechanism other than reproduction	What is the transfer of genetic material through a mechanism other than reproduction known as?
The genome size, and the number of genes it encodes varies widely between organisms	What is one characteristic that varies widely between organisms?
Although the number of base-pairs of DNA in the human genome has been known since the 1960s, the estimated number of genes has changed over time as definitions of genes, and methods of detecting them have been refined	Since when has the number of base pairs of DNA in the human genome been known?
Essential genes are the set of genes thought to be critical for an organism's survival	What are the set of genes which are thought to be crucial for the survival of an organism?
Housekeeping genes are critical for carrying out basic cell functions and so are expressed at a relatively constant level 	What type of genes are necessary for performing basic cell functions?
Gene nomenclature has been established by the HUGO Gene Nomenclature Committee for each known human gene in the form of an approved gene name and symbol , which can be accessed through a database maintained by HGNC	What committee has established gene nomenclature for every known human gene?
Genetic engineering is the modification of an organism's genome through biotechnology	What is known as the modification of an organism's genome through biotechnology?
Genetic engineering is now a routine research tool with model organisms	What has become a common research tool with model organisms?
For multicellular organisms, typically the embryo is engineered which grows into the adult genetically modified organism	For what sort of organisms is the embryo normally engineered?
Guinea-Bissau , officially the Republic of Guinea-Bissau ), is a country in West Africa	What is the official name for Guinea-Bissau?
Guinea-Bissau was once part of the kingdom of Gabu, as well as part of the Mali Empire	What kingdom was Guinea-Bissau once part of?
Only 14% of the population speaks Portuguese, established as the official language in the colonial period	What percentage of the population speaks Portuguese?
Guinea-Bissau is a member of the United Nations, African Union, Economic Community of West African States, Organisation of Islamic Cooperation, the Latin Union, Community of Portuguese Language Countries, La Francophonie and the South Atlantic Peace and Cooperation Zone	What Islamic organization does Guinea-Bissau belong to?
Portuguese Guinea was known as the Slave Coast, as it was a major area for the exportation of African slaves by Europeans to the western hemisphere	What area was known as the Slave Coast?
Early reports of Europeans reaching this area include those of the Venetian Alvise Cadamosto's voyage of 1455, the 1479–1480 voyage by Flemish-French trader Eustache de la Fosse, and Diogo Cão	When was Alvise Cadamosto's voyage?
Although the rivers and coast of this area were among the first places colonized by the Portuguese, who set up trading posts in the 16th century, they did not explore the interior until the 19th century	What areas were the first places colonized by the Portuguese?
For a brief period in the 1790s, the British tried to establish a rival foothold on an offshore island, at Bolama	Who tried to establish a rival foothold at Bolama?
An armed rebellion beginning in 1956 by the African Party for the Independence of Guinea and Cape Verde under the leadership of Amílcar Cabral gradually consolidated its hold on then Portuguese Guinea	What group started an armed rebellion in Guinea-Bissau?
Independence was unilaterally declared on 24 September 1973	When was independence declared?
Luís Cabral, brother of Amílcar and co-founder of PAIGC, was appointed the first President of Guinea-Bissau	Who was the first President of Guinea-Bissau?
The country was controlled by a revolutionary council until 1984	Who controlled the country prior to 1984?
In September 2003, a military coup was conducted	When was a military coup conducted?
In June 2005, presidential elections were held for the first time since the coup that deposed Ialá	After the coup, when were presidential elections held?
"Despite reports of arms entering the country prior to the election and some ""disturbances during campaigning,"" including attacks on government offices by unidentified gunmen, foreign election monitors described the 2005 election overall as ""calm and organized"""	What was reported to be entering the country prior to the election?
Three years later, PAIGC won a strong parliamentary majority, with 67 of 100 seats, in the parliamentary election held in November 2008	When was the parliamentary election held?
On 2 March 2009, however, Vieira was assassinated by what preliminary reports indicated to be a group of soldiers avenging the death of the head of joint chiefs of staff, General Batista Tagme Na Wai	Who was assassinated on 2 March 2009?
On the evening of 12 April 2012, members of the country's military staged a coup d'état and arrested the interim president and a leading presidential candidate	When was a coup d'etat staged?
Guinea-Bissau is a republic	What country is listed as a republic?
At the legislative level, a unicameral Assembleia Nacional Popular is made up of 100 members	How many members compose the legislature?
"João Bernardo ""Nino"" Vieira was elected in 2005 as President of Guinea-Bissau as an independent, being declared winner of the second round by the CNE "	Who was elected as President in 2005?
Vieira's death did not trigger widespread violence, but there were signs of turmoil in the country, according to the advocacy group Swisspeace	What was NOT triggered by Vieira's death?
In 2012, President Rachide Sambu-balde Malam Bacai Sanhá died	When did President Sanha die?
Guinea-Bissau is divided into eight regions and one autonomous sector 	How many regions does Guinea-Bissau contain?
Guinea-Bissau is bordered by Senegal to the north and Guinea to the south and east, with the Atlantic Ocean to its west	What country is on the north border of Guinea-Bissau?
At 36,125 square kilometres , the country is larger in size than Taiwan or Belgium	Guinea-Bissau is larger than what two countries?
The average rainfall for Bissau is 2,024 millimetres (79	What is the average rainfall in Bissau, in millimetres?
More than two-thirds of the population lives below the poverty line	How much of the population lives below the poverty line?
A long period of political instability has resulted in depressed economic activity, deteriorating social conditions, and increased macroeconomic imbalances	Political instability has resulted in what type of economic activity?
Guinea-Bissau has started to show some economic advances after a pact of stability was signed by the main political parties of the country, leading to an IMF-backed structural reform program	What did the main political parties sign to help the economy?
After several years of economic downturn and political instability, in 1997, Guinea-Bissau entered the CFA franc monetary system, bringing about some internal monetary stability	In what year did Guinea-Bissau start to bring some internal monetary stability to the country?
Beginning around 2005, drug traffickers based in Latin America began to use Guinea-Bissau, along with several neighboring West African nations, as a transshipment point to Europe for cocaine	When did drug traffickers begin to use Guinea-Bissau?
According to the 2010 revison of the UN World Population Prospects, Guinea-Bissau's population was 1,515,000 in 2010, compared to 518,000 in 1950	What was the population of Guinea-Bissau in 1950?
Portuguese natives comprise a very small percentage of Guinea-Bissauans	What natives comprise a very small percentage of the population?
44% speak Kriol, a Portuguese-based creole language, which is effectively a national language of communication among groups	What percentage of the population speaks Kriol?
Most Portuguese and Mestiços speak one of the African languages and Kriol as second languages	What is the second language for most Portuguese in Guinea-Bissau?
In the early 21st century, many have adopted Islam, which is now practiced by 50% of the country's population	What religion was adopted by the population in the early 21st century?
Approximately 10% of the country's population belong to the Christian community, and 40% continue to hold Indigenous beliefs	What percentage of the population is Christian?
The prevalence of HIV-infection among the adult population is 1	What infection has a very small prevalence in Guinea-Bissau?
Malaria kills more residents; 9% of the population have reported infection, It causes three times as many deaths as AIDS	What kills more residents than AIDS?
Despite lowering rates in surrounding countries, cholera rates were reported in November 2012 to be on the rise, with 1,500 cases reported and nine deaths	What type of disease was reported to be on the rise in Guinea-Bissau?
The 2010 maternal mortality rate per 100,000 births for Guinea Bissau was 1000	What was the 2010 maternal mortality rate per 100,000 births?
Education is compulsory from the age of 7 to 13	What are the ages when education is compulsory?
Guinea-Bissau has several secondary schools and a number of universities, to which an institutionally autonomous Faculty of Law as well as a Faculty of Medicine have been added	What type of secondary schools does Guinea-Bissau have?
The music of Guinea-Bissau is usually associated with the polyrhythmic gumbe genre, the country's primary musical export	What music genre is usually associated with Guinea-Bissau?
The calabash is the primary musical instrument of Guinea-Bissau, and is used in extremely swift and rhythmically complex dance music	What is the primary instrument of Guinea-Bissau?
The word gumbe is sometimes used generically, to refer to any music of the country, although it most specifically refers to a unique style that fuses about ten of the country's folk music traditions	What is sometimes used as a generic word for any music of Guinea-Bissau?
Rice is a staple in the diet of residents near the coast and millet a staple in the interior	What grain is a staple for residents near the coast of Guinea-Bissau?
Common dishes include soups and stews	What are common dishes in Guinea-Bissau?
Flora Gomes is an internationally renowned film director; his most famous film is Nha Fala 	Who is an internationally renowned film director from Guinea-Bissau?
The streets do not run exactly east–west, because the grid plan is aligned with the Hudson River rather than with the cardinal directions	What is the grid plan aligned with rather than the cardinal directions?
In general, even-numbered streets are one-way eastbound and odd-numbered streets are one-way west	Which streets are one-way eastbound?
Streets' names change from West to East at Broadway below 8th Street, and at Fifth Avenue from 8th Street and above	What happens at Broadway below 8th Street?
The grid covers the length of the island from 14th Street north	The grid covers the length of the island from what starting point?
220th Street is the highest numbered street on Manhattan Island	What is the highest numbered street on Manhattan Island?
Peretz Square, a small triangular sliver park where Houston Street, First Street and First Avenue meet marks the spot where the grid takes hold	What is the spot where the grid takes hold called?
The East end of East 3rd, 4th, 5th, and 7th Streets is Avenue D, with East 6th Street continuing further Eastward and connecting to FDR Drive	East 6th Street continues further Eastward and connects to which Drive?
The west end of these streets is Bowery and Third Avenue, except for 3rd Street and 4th Street , which extend west and north, respectively, into Greenwich Village	What name did 3rd Street previously hold?
East 5th Street goes west to Cooper Square, but is interrupted between Avenues B and C by The Earth School, Public School 364, and between First Avenue and Avenue A by the Village View Apartments	Which Apartments interrupt East 5th Street between First Avenue and Avenue A?
West 8th Street is an important local shopping street	West 8th Street is an important local street for what activity?
The M8 bus operates on 10th Street in both directions between Avenue D and Avenue A, and eastbound between West Street and Sixth Avenue	Which bus operates on 10th Street between Avenues D and A and between West Street and Sixth Ave?
West 11th Street runs from Broadway to West Street	Which street runs from Broadway to West Street?
13th Street is in three parts	13th Street is divided into how many parts?
It begins at Avenue C and ends at West Street	Where does 14th Street begin?
15th Street starts at FDR Drive, and 16th Street starts at a dead end half way between FDR Drive and Avenue C	Where does 15th Street start?
986575), traffic runs one way along the street, from east to west excepting the stretch between Broadway and Park Avenue South, where traffic runs in both directions	What is unusual about the traffic between Broadway and Park Avenue South on 17th Street?
18th Street has a local subway station at the crossing with Seventh Avenue, served by the 1 2 trains on the IRT Broadway – Seventh Avenue Line	What is at the crossing of 18th Street and Seventh Avenue?
20th Street starts at Avenue C, and 21st and 22nd Streets begin at First Avenue	Where does 10th Street start?
Between Second and Third Avenues, 21st Street is alternatively known as Police Officer Anthony Sanchez Way	Which Street is also known as Police Officer Anthony Sanchez Way?
It begins at FDR Drive and ends at Eleventh Avenue	Where does 23rd Street begin?
25th Street, which is in three parts, starts at FDR Drive, is a pedestrian plaza between Third Avenue and Lexington Avenue, and ends at Madison	Which street is a pedestrian plaza between Third Avenue and Lexington Avenue?
27th Street is a one-way street runs from Second Avenue to the West Side Highway with an interruption between Eighth Avenue and Tenth Avenue	Which street does Club Row occur on?
In recent years, the nightclubs on West 27th Street have succumbed to stiff competition from Manhattan's Meatpacking District about fifteen blocks south, and other venues in downtown Manhattan	How many blocks south of 27th Street is Manhattan's Meatpacking District?
Heading east, 27th Street passes through Chelsea Park between Tenth and Ninth Avenues, with the Fashion Institute of Technology on the corner of Eighth	The Fashion Institute of Technology is on the corner of 27th Street and what Avenue?
31st Street begins on the West Side at the West Side Yard, while 32nd Street, which includes a segment officially known as Korea Way between Fifth Avenue and Broadway in Manhattan's Koreatown, begins at the entrance to Penn Station and Madison Square Garden	Where does 31st Street begin?
35th Street runs from FDR Drive to Eleventh Avenue	Where does 35th Street begin?
The second segment of East 90th Street begins at East Drive, at Engineers Gate of Central Park	Which street begins at East Drive, at Engineers Gate of Central Park?
112th Street starts in Morningside Heights and runs from Riverside Drive to Amsterdam Avenue, where it meets the steps of the Cathedral of Saint John the Divine	Where does 112th Street start?
114th Street marks the southern boundary of Columbia University’s Morningside Heights Campus and is the location of Butler Library, which is the University’s largest	Which library is Columbia University's largest?
Above 114th Street between Amsterdam Avenue and Morningside Drive, there is a private indoor pedestrian bridge connecting two buildings on the campus of St	On which street is a private indoor pedestrian bridge between Amsterdam Avenue and Morningside Drive?
It begins on Riverside Drive at the Interchurch Center	On which road does 120th Street begin?
9540 122nd Street is divided into three noncontiguous segments, E 122nd Street, W 122nd Street, and W 122nd Street Seminary Row, by Marcus Garvey Memorial Park and Morningside Park	Which memorial park divides 122nd Street?
E 122nd Street runs four blocks ) west from the intersection of Second Avenue and terminates at the intersection of Madison Avenue at Marcus Garvey Memorial Park	How many blocks west of Second Avenue does E 122nd Street run?
W 122nd Street runs six blocks ) west from the intersection of Mount Morris Park West at Marcus Garvey Memorial Park and terminates at the intersection of Morningside Avenue at Morningside Park	At which intersection does W 122nd Street terminate?
W 122nd Street Seminary Row runs three blocks ) west from the intersection of Amsterdam Avenue and terminates at the intersection of Riverside Drive	What is another name for Tenth Avenue?
Seminary Row is named for the Union Theological Seminary and the Jewish Theological Seminary which it touches	Besides the Union Theological Seminary, which other Seminary touches Seminary Row?
122nd Street is mentioned in the movie Taxi Driver by main character Travis Bickle as the location where a fellow cab driver is assaulted with a knife	Who is the main character in Taxi Driver?
9575 La Salle Street is a street in West Harlem that runs just two blocks between Amsterdam Avenue and Claremont Avenue	Which street in West Harlem runs just two blocks between Amersterdam Avenue and Claremont Avenue?
947944 132nd Street runs east-west above Central Park and is located in Harlem just south of Hamilton Heights	The main portion of what road runs eastbound from Frederick Douglass Boulevard to Park Avenue?
The spirit of the neighborhood lives in gardens like this one, planted and tended by local residents	Who takes care of the 132nd Street Community Garden?
The Manhattanville Bus Depot is located on West 132nd and 133rd Street between Broadway and Riverside Drive in the Manhattanville neighborhood	What is the 132nd Street Bus Depot currently known as?
155th Street is a major crosstown street considered to form the boundary between Harlem and Washington Heights	How many crosstown streets are mapped in the Commissioner's Plan of 1811?
155th Street starts on the West Side at Riverside Drive, crossing Broadway, Amsterdam Avenue and St	Where does 155th Street start?
181st Street is a major thoroughfare running through the Washington Heights neighborhood	181st Street runs through what neighborhood?
West of Fort Washington Avenue, 181st Street is largely residential, bordering Hudson Heights and having a few shops to serve the local residents	In which direction is 181st Street largely residential?
181st Street is served by two New York City Subway lines; there is a 181st Street station at Fort Washington Avenue on the IND Eighth Avenue Line and a 181st Street station at St	How many subway lines serve 181st Street?
187th Street crosses Washington Heights and running from Laurel Hill Terrace in the east to Chittenden Avenue in the west near the George Washington Bridge and Hudson River	187th Street runs from Laurel Hill Terrace in the east to which avenue in the west?
187th Street intersects with, from East to West, Laurel Hill Terrace, Amsterdam Avenue, Audubon Avenue, St	Which is the eastmost intersection that 187th Street has?
The many institutions on 187th Street include Mount Sinai Jewish Center, the Dombrov Shtiebel, and the uptown campus of Yeshiva University	On what street is the Dombrov Shtiebel?
The brain is an organ that serves as the center of the nervous system in all vertebrate and most invertebrate animals	What is the center of the nervous system in all creatures?
The brain acts on the rest of the body both by generating patterns of muscle activity and by driving the secretion of chemicals called hormones	Hormones secreted are driven by what organ in the body?
Recent models in modern neuroscience treat the brain as a biological computer, very different in mechanism from an electronic computer, but similar in the sense that it acquires information from the surrounding world, stores it, and processes it in a variety of ways, analogous to the central processing unit in a computer	Which part of a computer does the brain most resemble?
This article compares the properties of brains across the entire range of animal species, with the greatest attention to vertebrates	Animals with a spine are called what?
"Some aspects of brain structure are common to almost the entire range of animal species; others distinguish ""advanced"" brains from more primitive ones, or distinguish vertebrates from invertebrates"	Animals without a spine are called what?
The simplest way to gain information about brain anatomy is by visual inspection, but many more sophisticated techniques have been developed	The easiest way to learn about brain anatomy is by what?
The brains of all species are composed primarily of two broad classes of cells: neurons and glial cells	Brains of organisms are made up mostly of what two classes of cells?
Axons transmit signals to other neurons by means of specialized junctions called synapses	Axons send signals to other neurons by junctions known as what?
The human brain has been estimated to contain approximately 100 trillion synapses; even the brain of a fruit fly contains several million	How many synapses does the human brain supposedly contain?
Most of the space in the brain is taken up by axons, which are often bundled together in what are called nerve fiber tracts	Axons grouped together are known as what?
Except for a few primitive organisms such as sponges and cnidarians , all living multicellular animals are bilaterians, meaning animals with a bilaterally symmetric body shape 	Creatures that have a diffuse nerve net are called what?
There are a few types of existing bilaterians that lack a recognizable brain, including echinoderms, tunicates, and acoelomorphs 	A name for a group of primitive flatworms is what?
The brains of arthropods and cephalopods arise from twin parallel nerve cords that extend through the body of the animal	Arthropods and cephalopods have brains that come from a pair of what?
There are several invertebrate species whose brains have been studied intensively because they have properties that make them convenient for experimental work:	Which brains are easier to work on, vertebrates or invertebrates?
The first vertebrates appeared over 500 million years ago , during the Cambrian period, and may have resembled the modern hagfish in form	How long ago did the first vertebrate organisms appear?
In general, smaller animals tend to have larger brains, measured as a fraction of body size	Do predators have larger or smaller brains compared to their prey?
In its earliest form, the brain appears as three swellings at the front end of the neural tube; these swellings eventually become the forebrain, midbrain, and hindbrain 	The forebrain during development is known as what?
Living brain tissue is pinkish on the outside and mostly white on the inside, with subtle variations in color	Brain tissue that is living is what color on the outside?
Neuroanatomists usually divide the vertebrate brain into six main regions: the telencephalon , diencephalon , mesencephalon , cerebellum, pons, and medulla oblongata	People who study the anatomy of the central nervous system are known as what?
"The brain of a shark shows the basic components in a straightforward way, but in teleost fishes , the forebrain has become ""everted"", like a sock turned inside out"	The forebrain is everted in what type of fishes?
On average, a mammal has a brain roughly twice as large as that of a bird of the same body size, and ten times as large as that of a reptile of the same body size	A mammal's brain is how many times larger than a birds relative to body size?
The cerebral cortex is the part of the brain that most strongly distinguishes mammals	What part of the brain most strongly differentiates mammals from other vertebrates?
The superior colliculus, which plays a major role in visual control of behavior in most vertebrates, shrinks to a small size in mammals, and many of its functions are taken over by visual areas of the cerebral cortex	The superior colliculus is related to what sensual control of vertebrates?
The most widely accepted way of comparing brain sizes across species is the so-called encephalization quotient , which takes into account the nonlinearity of the brain-to-body relationship	Comparing brain sizes among different creatures is used most commonly by what?
The visual processing network of primates includes at least 30 distinguishable brain areas, with a complex web of interconnections	Primates have a visual processing network of how many brain areas?
As the embryo transforms from a round blob of cells into a wormlike structure, a narrow strip of ectoderm running along the midline of the back is induced to become the neural plate, the precursor of the nervous system	The precursor of the nervous system is called what in vertebrates?
The tip of a growing axon consists of a blob of protoplasm called a growth cone, studded with chemical receptors	A growth cone of an axon is made up of a blob of what?
In humans and many other mammals, new neurons are created mainly before birth, and the infant brain contains substantially more neurons than the adult brain	The infant brain contains more of what type of cells in the brain than the adult brain?
The electrical properties of neurons are controlled by a wide variety of biochemical and metabolic processes, most notably the interactions between neurotransmitters and receptors that take place at synapses	The electrical properties of neurons are controlled by what?
Neurotransmitters are chemicals that are released at synapses when an action potential activates them—neurotransmitters attach themselves to receptor molecules on the membrane of the synapse's target cell, and thereby alter the electrical or chemical properties of the receptor molecules	Chemicals called neurotransmitters are released at what part of the brain?
The two neurotransmitters that are used most widely in the vertebrate brain are glutamate, which almost always exerts excitatory effects on target neurons, and gamma-aminobutyric acid , which is almost always inhibitory	GABA is the abbreviation for what?
Serotonin, for example—the primary target of antidepressant drugs and many dietary aids—comes exclusively from a small brainstem area called the Raphe nuclei	Serotonin comes from what part of the brain?
When large numbers of neurons show synchronized activity, the electric fields that they generate can be large enough to detect outside the skull, using electroencephalography or magnetoencephalography 	An EEG of the brain stands for what?
Glial cells play a major role in brain metabolism by controlling the chemical composition of the fluid that surrounds neurons, including levels of ions and nutrients	What type of cells have a huge role in brain metabolism?
In primates, however, the percentage is much higher—in humans it rises to 20–25%	The energy used for metabolism of the brain in humans is what percentage?
From an evolutionary-biological perspective, the function of the brain is to provide coherent control over the actions of an animal	The function of the brain from an evolutionary-biological thought is what?
The invention of electronic computers in the 1940s, along with the development of mathematical information theory, led to a realization that brains can potentially be understood as information processing systems	Computers were invented in what decade in history?
"One of the most influential early contributions was a 1959 paper titled What the frog's eye tells the frog's brain: the paper examined the visual responses of neurons in the retina and optic tectum of frogs, and came to the conclusion that some neurons in the tectum of the frog are wired to combine elementary responses in a way that makes them function as ""bug perceivers"""	The scientific paper, What the frog's eye tells the frog's brain was released in what year?
However, having said this, the Human Brain Project is trying to build a realistic, detailed computational model of the entire human brain	What is the project called that is trying to build a realistic, detailed computer model of the human brain?
Moreover, other animals may develop existing sensory systems in new ways, such as the adaptation by bats of the auditory sense into a form of sonar	What type of animal has a sense that adapted into sonar?
Each sensory system begins with specialized receptor cells, such as light-receptive neurons in the retina of the eye, vibration-sensitive neurons in the cochlea of the ear, or pressure-sensitive neurons in the skin	Light-receptive neurons are located in what part of the eye?
Except for the muscles that control the eye, which are driven by nuclei in the midbrain, all the voluntary muscles in the body are directly innervated by motor neurons in the spinal cord and hindbrain	What part of the body is controlled by nuclei in the midbrain?
At the lowest level are motor areas in the medulla and pons, which control stereotyped movements such as walking, breathing, or swallowing	Which motor areas of the brain control breathing and swallowing?
"In addition to all of the above, the brain and spinal cord contain extensive circuitry to control the autonomic nervous system, which works by secreting hormones and by modulating the ""smooth"" muscles of the gut"	The brain and spinal cord work together to control what system of the body?
A key component of the arousal system is the suprachiasmatic nucleus , a tiny part of the hypothalamus located directly above the point at which the optic nerves from the two eyes cross	The SCN of the nervous system is an abbreviation for what?
An important component of the system is the reticular formation, a group of neuron-clusters scattered diffusely through the core of the lower brain	A group of neuron-clusters scattered in the core of the lower brain is called what?
There are two types of sleep: REM sleep and NREM sleep, which repeat in slightly varying patterns throughout a sleep episode	What type of sleep involves dreaming?
The ability of an animal to regulate the internal environment of its body—the milieu intérieur, as pioneering physiologist Claude Bernard called it—is known as homeostasis 	Homeostasis is defined as what?
In vertebrates, the part of the brain that plays the greatest role is the hypothalamus, a small region at the base of the forebrain whose size does not reflect its complexity or the importance of its function	The hypothalamus is located at the base of what?
In vertebrates, the reward-punishment system is implemented by a specific set of brain structures, at the heart of which lie the basal ganglia, a set of interconnected areas at the base of the forebrain	A set of interconnected areas at the base of the forebrain is called what?
In 1971 Tim Bliss and Terje Lømo published a paper on a phenomenon now called long-term potentiation: the paper showed clear evidence of activity-induced synaptic changes that lasted for at least several days	In what year did Tim Bliss and Terje Lomo publish a paper about long-term potentiation?
The field of neuroscience encompasses all approaches that seek to understand the brain and the rest of the nervous system	What field of science studies the brain and the central nervous system?
The oldest method of studying the brain is anatomical, and until the middle of the 20th century, much of the progress in neuroscience came from the development of better cell stains and better microscopes	The oldest known method of studying the brain is what?
Neurophysiologists study the chemical, pharmacological, and electrical properties of the brain: their primary tools are drugs and recording devices	What do neurophysiologists study?
Even though it is protected by the skull and meninges, surrounded by cerebrospinal fluid, and isolated from the bloodstream by the blood–brain barrier, the delicate nature of the brain makes it vulnerable to numerous diseases and several types of damage	The brain is surrounded by what type of fluid?
The most common subjects are mice, because of the availability of technical tools	What is the most common test subjects for studying of the brain?
The oldest brain to have been discovered was in Armenia in the Areni-1 cave complex	Where was the oldest brain that was found?
Aristotle favored the heart, and thought that the function of the brain was merely to cool the blood	Aristotle thought the soul lied in what organ?
The Roman physician Galen also argued for the importance of the brain, and theorized in some depth about how it might work	The physician Galen was from which country in history?
The first real progress toward a modern understanding of nervous function, though, came from the investigations of Luigi Galvani, who discovered that a shock of static electricity applied to an exposed nerve of a dead frog could cause its leg to contract	Who found out that a shock of electricity to an exposed nerve of a dead frog caused contractions?
In the first half of the 20th century, advances in electronics enabled investigation of the electrical properties of nerve cells, culminating in work by Alan Hodgkin, Andrew Huxley, and others on the biophysics of the action potential, and the work of Bernard Katz and others on the electrochemistry of the synapse	Work in the first half the 20th century in electrical properties of nerve cells were by what two main scientists?
"In the United States, the 1990s were officially designated as the ""Decade of the Brain"" to commemorate advances made in brain research, and to promote funding for such research"	"Which decade in history was officially called the ""Decade of the Brain""?"
In the 21st century, these trends have continued, and several new approaches have come into prominence, including multielectrode recording, which allows the activity of many brain cells to be recorded all at the same time; genetic engineering, which allows molecular components of the brain to be altered experimentally; genomics, which allows variations in brain structure to be correlated with variations in DNA properties and neuroimaging	Multielectrode recording allows what?
Near East is a geographical term that roughly encompasses Western Asia	What is a geographical term that roughly encompasses Western Asia?
The Encyclopædia Britannica defines the Near East as including Armenia, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Cyprus, Egypt, Georgia, Iran, Iraq, Israel, Jordan, Kuwait, Lebanon, Libya, Oman, Palestine, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Sudan, Syria, Turkey, the United Arab Emirates, the West Bank, and Yemen	Who defines the Near East as including Armenia, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Cyprus, Egypt. Georgia, Iran, Iraq, Isreal, Jordan, Kuwait, Lebanon, Libya, Oman, Palestine, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Sudan, Syria, Turkey, the United Arab Emirates, the West Bank, and Yemen?
At the beginning of the 19th century the Ottoman Empire included all of the Balkan Peninsula north to the southern edge of the Hungarian Plain, but by 1914 had lost all of it except Constantinople and Eastern Thrace to the rise of Balkan nationalism, which saw the independence of Greece, Serbia, the Danubian Principalities and Bulgaria	What empire included all of the Balkan Peninsula north to the southern edge of the Hungarian Plain at the beginning of the 19th century?
"The Ottoman Empire, believed to be about to collapse, was portrayed in the press as the sick man of Europe"""	How was the Ottoman Empire portrayed in the press?
"In about the middle of the 19th century ""Near East"" came into use to describe that part of the east closest to Europe"	"When did ""Near East"" come into use to describe the part of the east closest to Europe?"
One was North Africa west of Egypt	What was one region included that was occupied by piratical kingdoms?
"The geographical terms ""Near East"" and ""Far East"" referring to areas of the globe in or contiguous to the former British Empire and the neighboring colonies of the Dutch, Portuguese, Spanish and Germans, fit together as a pair based on the opposites of far and near, suggesting that they were innovated together"	"The terms ""Near East"" and ""Far East"" referring to areas of the globe in or contiguous to the former British Empire and the neighboring colonies fit together as a pair based on what? "
The Romans had used them in near Gaul / far Gaul, near Spain / far Spain and others	Who used the terms near Gaul?
Ptolemy's Geography divided Asia on a similar basis	What divided Asia on a similar basis? 
"By the time of John Seller's Atlas Maritima of 1670, ""India Beyond the Ganges"" had become ""the East Indies"" including China, Korea, southeast Asia and the islands of the Pacific in a map that was every bit as distorted as Ptolemy's, despite the lapse of approximately 1500 years"	When was John Seller's Atlas Maritima?
Elizabeth I of England, primarily interested in trade with the east, collaborated with English merchants to form the first trading companies to the far-flung regions, using their own jargon	Where was Elizabeth I from?
It has pleased western historians to write of a decline of the Ottoman Empire as though a stable and uncontested polity of that name once existed	What has pleased western historians?
The populations of those lands did not accept Turkish rule	The populations did not accept what?
In 1853 the Russian Empire on behalf of the Slavic Balkan states began to question the very existence of the Ottoman Empire	When did the Russian Empire begin to question the existence of the Ottoman Empire?
Until about 1855 the words near east and far east did not refer to any particular region	Until what year did the words near east and far east not refer to any particular region? 
In 1855 a reprint of a letter earlier sent to The Times appeared in Littel's Living Age	When was a reprint of a letter sent to The Times appear in Littel's Living Age?
If not the first use of the terms, the letter to the Times was certainly one of the earliest presentations of this vocabulary to the general public	What was one of the earliest presentations of this vocabulary?
"""Near East"" remained popular in diplomatic, trade and journalistic circles, but a variation soon developed among the scholars and the men of the cloth and their associates: ""the Nearer East,"" reverting to the classical and then more scholarly distinction of ""nearer"" and ""farther"	What remained popular in diplomatic, trade and journalistic circles?
For example, The London Review of 1861 in reviewing several works by Rawlinson, Layard and others, defined themselves as making:	When was the London Review?
Explicitly excluded is India	What region was explicitly excluded?
Hogarth then proceeds to say where and why in some detail, but no more mention is made of the classics	What does Hogarth say in detail?
"In the last years of the 19th century the term ""Near East"" acquired considerable disrepute in eyes of the English-speaking public as did the Ottoman Empire itself"	"When did the term ""Near East"" acquire considerable disrepute?"
The change is evident in the reports of influential British travellers to the Balkans	Reports from who made the change evident?
Instead the Normans whirled off to New York	Where did the Normans go off to instead of publishing the book?
"Throughout this article Norman uses ""Near East"" to mean the countries where ""the eastern question"" applied; that is, to all of the Balkans"	"What does Norman mean in the article when saying ""Near East""?"
If Norman was apparently attempting to change British policy, it was perhaps William Miller , journalist and expert on the Near East, who did the most in that direction	What was William Miller's life span?
These were fighting words to be coming from a country that once insisted Europe needed Turkey and was willing to spill blood over it	Miller's words were considered what?
If the British Empire was now going to side with the Russian Empire, the Ottoman Empire had no choice but to cultivate a relationship with the Austro-Hungarian Empire, which was supported by the German Empire	The Ottoman Empire had no choice but to develop their relationship with what country?
"By 1916, when millions of Europeans were becoming casualties of imperial war in the trenches of eastern and western Europe over ""the eastern question,"" Arnold J"	What year was Arnold J toynbee becoming metaphysical about the Near East?
From the death of the Near East new nations were able to rise from the ashes, notably the Republic of Turkey	What was able to rise from the death of the Near East?
The term middle east as a noun and adjective was common in the 19th century in nearly every context except diplomacy and archaeology	When was the term middle east common as a noun and adjective?
The use of the term Middle East as a region of international affairs apparently began in British and American diplomatic circles quite independently of each other over concern for the security of the same country: Iran, then known to the west as Persia	Where did the use of the term Middle East as a region of international affairs begin?
The threat that caused Gordon, diplomat and military officer, to publish the article was resumption of work on a railway from Russia to the Persian Gulf	What threat caused Gordon to publish his article?
A second strategic personality from American diplomatic and military circles, Alfred Thayer Mahan, concerned about the naval vulnerability of the trade routes in the Persian Gulf and Indian Ocean, commented in 1902:	Who was a member of American diplomatic and military circles?
Apparently the sailor did not connect with the soldier, as Mahan believed he was innovating the term Middle East	Who did not connect with the soldier?
Until the period following World War I the Near East and the Middle East coexisted, but they were not always seen as distinct	The Near East and the Middle East coexisted until what period?
The basis of Simpson's unity is color and colonial subjection	What is the basis of Simpson's unity?
"These regions were occupied by ""the brown men,"" with the yellow in the Far East and the black in Africa"	These regions were occupied by who?
The Ottomans were portrayed as the slavers, but even as the American and British fleets were striking at the Barbary pirates on behalf of freedom, their countries were promulgating a vigorous African slave trade of their own	The Ottomans were portrayed as what?
"The term ""Near and Middle East,"" held the stage for a few years before World War I"	"When did the term ""Near and Middle East"" hold stage?"
"Subsequently with the disgrace of ""Near East"" in diplomatic and military circles, ""Middle East"" prevailed"	"What prevailed with the disgrace of ""Near East""?"
Although racial and colonial definitions of the Middle East are no longer considered ideologically sound, the sentiment of unity persists	What sentiment persists even though racial and colonial definitions of the Middle East are no longer ideologically sound?
"In the 20th century after decades of intense warfare and political turmoil terms such as ""Near East"", ""Far East"" and ""Middle East"" were relegated to the experts, especially in the new field of political science"	"When were terms such as ""Near East"", ""Far East"", and ""Middle East"" relegated to the experts?"
The United States is the chief remaining nation to assign official responsibilities to a region called the Near East	What is the chief remaining nation to assign official responsibilities to a region called the Near East?
The Bureau of Near Eastern Affairs, a division of the United States Department of State, is perhaps the most influential agency to still use the term Near East	The Bureau of Near Eastern Affairs is a division of what?
Working closely in conjunction with the definition of the Near East provided by the State Department is the Near East South Asia Center for Strategic Studies , an educational institution of the United States Department of Defense	Who works closely with the definition of the Near East?
The Washington Institute for Near East Policy is a non-profit organization for research and advice on Middle Eastern policy	What is WINEP?
The Library of Congress is an institution established by Congress to provide a research library for the government of the United States and serve as a national library	What does LoC stand for?
The United Nations formulates multiple regional divisions as is convenient for its various operations	Who formulates multiple regional divisions as is convenient for its various operations?
The Central Intelligence Agency is a quasi-independent agency of the United States Government	What is a quasi-independent agency of the United States Government?
The Near East of the NESA is the same as the Middle East defined in the CIA-published on-line resource, The World Factbook	The Near East of the NESA is the same as the Middle East define in what?
T	"Whose duties are defined as ""support on Middle Eastern and North African countries?"""
Agency for International Development , an independent agency under the Department of State established in place of the Marshall Plan for the purpose of determining and distributing foreign aid, does not use the term Near East	What is the independant agency under the Department of State for the purpose of determining and distributing foreign aid called?
The Foreign and Commonwealth Office of United Kingdom recognises a Middle East and North Africa region, but not a Near East	The Foreign and Commonwealth Office of United Kingdom recognizes what?
"The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Greece conducts ""bilateral relationships"" with the countries of the ""Mediterranean – Middle East Region"" but has formulated no Near East Region"	What does the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Greece conduct?
The Ancient Near East is a term of the 20th century intended to stabilize the geographical application of Near East to ancient history	What is a term of the 20th centrury intended to stabilize the geographical application of Near East to ancient history?
""" For example, a high point in the use of ""Ancient Near East"" was for Biblical scholars the Ancient Near Eastern Texts relating to the Old Testament by James Bennett Pritchard, a textbook of first edition dated 1950"	James Bennett Pritchard wrote what?
Most universities teaching the liberal arts have library and museum collections	What do most universities teaching liberal arts have? 
One such institution is the Centre for the Study of Ancient Documents founded by and located centrally at Oxford University, Great Britain	What does CSAD stand for?
A large percentage of experts on the modern Middle East began their training in university departments named for the Near East	Where did a large percentage of experts on the modern Middle East began their training?
Zhejiang , formerly romanized as Chekiang, is an eastern coastal province of China	What was Zhejiang formerly romanized as?
The province's name derives from the Zhe River , the former name of the Qiantang River which flows past Hangzhou and whose mouth forms Hangzhou Bay	What is the former name of the Qiantang River?
Zhejiang was the site of the Neolithic cultures of the Hemudu and Liangzhu	What kind of cultures were the Hemudu and Liangzhu?
Instead, this area was populated by peoples collectively known as the Hundred Yue, including the Dongyue and the Ouyue	Who populated the areas of Zhejiang in the 2nd millennium BC?
Kuaiji Commandery was the initial power base for Xiang Liang and Xiang Yu's rebellion against the Qin Empire which initially succeeded in restoring the kingdom of Chu but eventually fell to the Han	What was the initial power base for Xiang Liang and Xiang Yu's rebellion?
At the beginning of the Three Kingdoms era , Zhejiang was home to the warlords Yan Baihu and Wang Lang prior to their defeat by Sun Ce and Sun Quan, who eventually established the Kingdom of Wu	When was the beginning of the Three Kingdoms era?
Zhejiang was part of the Wu during the Three Kingdoms	When was Zhejiang part of the Wu?
Despite the continuing prominence of Nanjing , the settlement of Qiantang, the former name of Hangzhou, remained one of the three major metropolitan centers in the south to provide major tax revenue to the imperial centers in the north China	What was Nanjing formerly known as?
Following the fall of Wu and the turmoil of the Wu Hu uprising against the Jin dynasty , most of elite Chinese families had collaborated with the non-Chinese rulers and military conquerors in the north	When was the Jin Dynasty?
Zhejiang, as the heartland of the Jiangnan , remained the wealthiest area during the Six Dynasties , Sui, and Tang	When did the Six Dynasties end?
The Song dynasty reëstablished unity around 960	When did the Song dynasty reestablish unity around?
Greenware ceramics made from celadon had been made in the area since the 3rd-century Jin dynasty, but it returned to prominence—particularly in Longquan—during the Southern Song and Yuan	What were greenware ceramics made from?
"""In 1727 the to-min or 'idle people' of Cheh Kiang province , the yoh-hu or 'music people' of Shanxi province, the si-min or 'small people' of Kiang Su province, and the Tanka people or 'egg-people' of Canton , were all freed from their social disabilities, and allowed to count as free men"	What do 'to-min' mean?
During the First Opium War, the British navy defeated Eight Banners forces at Ningbo and Dinghai	During which war did the British navy defeat Eight Banners forces at Ningbo and Dinghai?
During the Second Sino-Japanese War, which led into World War II, much of Zhejiang was occupied by Japan and placed under the control of the Japanese puppet state known as the Reorganized National Government of China	What war did the Second Sino-Japanese War lead into?
After the People's Republic of China took control of Mainland China in 1949, the Republic of China government based in Taiwan continued to control the Dachen Islands off the coast of Zhejiang until 1955, even establishing a rival Zhejiang provincial government there, creating a situation similar to Fujian province today	When did the People's Republic of China take control of Mainland China?
Zhejiang benefited less from central government investment than some other provinces due to its lack of natural resources, a location vulnerable to potential flooding from the sea, and an economic base at the national average	What type of resources does Zhejiang have a lack of?
Zhejiang consists mostly of hills, which account for about 70% of its total area	What does Zhejiang consist mostly of?
The north of the province lies just south of the Yangtze Delta, and consists of plains around the cities of Hangzhou, Jiaxing, and Huzhou, where the Grand Canal of China enters from the northern border to end at Hangzhou	What does the north of the province lie just south of?
There are over three thousand islands along the rugged coastline of Zhejiang	How many islands are along the rugged coastline of Zhejiang?
The eleven prefecture-level divisions of Zhejiang are subdivided into 90 county-level divisions 	How many prefecture-level divisions of Zhejiang are there?
The politics of Zhejiang is structured in a dual party-government system like all other governing institutions in Mainland China	How are the politics of Zhejiang structured?
Tan Zhenlin , the inaugural Party Secretary, was one of the leading voices against Mao's Cultural Revolution during the so-called February Countercurrent of 1967	When was Tan Zhenlin's term as Zhenjiang's Communist Party Secretary?
"The province is traditionally known as the ""Land of Fish and Rice"""	What is the province traditionally known as?
Ningbo, Wenzhou, Taizhou and Zhoushan are important commercial ports	What is an important commercial port along with Ningbo, Wenzhou and Taizhou?
"In recent years Zhejiang has followed its own development model, dubbed the ""Zhejiang model"", which is based on prioritizing and encouraging entrepreneurship, an emphasis on small businesses responsive to the whims of the market, large public investments into infrastructure, and the production of low-cost goods in bulk for both domestic consumption and export"	What is Zhejiang's own development model dubbed?
On Thursday, September 15, 2011, more than 500 people from Hongxiao Village protested over the large-scale death of fish in a nearby river	What day of the week was September 15, 2011?
Han Chinese make up the vast majority of the population, and the largest Han subgroup are the speakers of Wu varieties of Chinese	What kind of Chinese make up the vast majority of the population?
The predominant religions in Zhejiang are Chinese folk religions, Taoist traditions and Chinese Buddhism	What is another predominant religion of Zhejiang besides Chinese folk religions and Taoist traditions?
"In mid-2015 the government of Zhejiang recognised folk religion as ""civil religion"" beginning the registration of more than twenty thousand folk religious associations"	What year did the government of Zhejiang recognise folk religion as 'civil religion'?
Catholicism arrived 400 years ago in the province and Protestantism 150 years ago	How many years ago did Catholicism arrive in the province?
"The rapid development of religions in Zhejiang has driven the local committee of ethnic and religious affairs to enact measures to rationalise them in 2014, variously named ""Three Rectifications and One Demolition"" operations or ""Special Treatment Work on Illegally Constructed Sites of Religious and Folk Religion Activities"" according to the locality"	When did the rapid development of religions in Zhejiang drive the local committee of ethnic and religious affairs to enact measures to rationalise them?
Islam arrived 1,400 years ago in Zhejiang	How long ago did Islam arrive in Zhejiang?
Linguistically speaking, Zhejiang is extremely diverse	How diverse is Zhejiang, linguistically speaking?
Since the founding of the People's Republic of China in 1949, Mandarin, which is not mutually intelligible with any of the local dialects, has been promoted as the standard language of communication throughout China	When was the People's Republic of China founded?
Zhejiang is the home of Yueju , one of the most prominent forms of Chinese opera	What is one of the most prominent forms of Chinese opera?
Longjing tea , originating in Hangzhou, is one of the most prestigious, if not the most prestigious Chinese tea	What is Longjing tea also called?
Since ancient times, north Zhejiang and neighbouring south Jiangsu have been famed for their prosperity and opulence, and simply inserting north Zhejiang place names (Hangzhou, Jiaxing, etc	What neighbours north Zhejiang to the south?
The Ministry of Defence is the British government department responsible for implementing the defence policy set by Her Majesty's Government, and is the headquarters of the British Armed Forces	Which government's Ministry of Defence is mentioned here?
T	What is another name for Her Majesty's Government?
The MoD states that its principal objectives are to defend the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and its interests and to strengthen international peace and stability	What does the MoD wish to strengthen?
During the 1920s and 1930s, British civil servants and politicians, looking back at the performance of the state during World War I, concluded that there was a need for greater co-ordination between the three Services that made up the armed forces of the United Kingdom—the British Army, the Royal Navy, and the Royal Air Force	What three services make up the armed forces of the UK?
Winston Churchill, on forming his government in 1940, created the office of Minister of Defence to exercise ministerial control over the Chiefs of Staff Committee and to co-ordinate defence matters	Who created the office of Minister of Defence?
From 1946 to 1964 five Departments of State did the work of the modern Ministry of Defence: the Admiralty, the War Office, the Air Ministry, the Ministry of Aviation, and an earlier form of the Ministry of Defence	During what years did the five Departments of State do the work of the modern Ministry of Defence?
The Ministers and Chiefs of the Defence Staff are supported by a number of civilian, scientific and professional military advisors	Who is supported by civilian, scientific, and professional military advisors?
The current Chief of the Defence Staff, the professional head of the British Armed Forces, is General Sir Nicholas Houghton, late Green Howards	What is the name of the person who is the current Chief of the Defence Staff?
There are also three Deputy Chiefs of the Defence Staff with particular remits, Deputy Chief of the Defence Staff , Deputy CDS and Deputy CDS 	How many Deputy Chiefs of the Defence Staff are there?
Additionally, there are a number of Assistant Chiefs of Defence Staff, including the Assistant Chief of the Defence Staff and the Defence Services Secretary in the Royal Household of the Sovereign of the United Kingdom, who is also the Assistant Chief of Defence Staff 	One of the Assistant Chiefs of the Defence Staff is for Reserves and what?
A	What two groups is the Defense Services Secretary responsible for?
The 1998 Strategic Defence Review and the 2003 Delivering Security in a Changing World White Paper outlined the following posture for the British Armed Forces:	In what year was there a Strategic Defence Review?
"The MoD has since been regarded as a leader in elaborating the post-Cold War organising concept of ""defence diplomacy"""	In what concept is the MoD considered a leader?
The Strategic Defence and Security Review 2015 included £178 billion investment in new equipment and capabilities	How much was the investment in new equipment and capabilities worth?
Following the end of the Cold War, the threat of direct conventional military confrontation with other states has been replaced by terrorism	What was the new threat that arose after the end of the Cold War?
"Dannatt criticised a remnant ""Cold War mentality"", with military expenditures based on retaining a capability against a direct conventional strategic threat; He said currently only 10% of the MoD's equipment programme budget between 2003 and 2018 was to be invested in the ""land environment""—at a time when Britain was engaged in land-based wars in Afghanistan and Iraq"	Military spending that is based on conventional threats has been dismissed as what?
"The Defence Committee—Third Report ""Defence Equipment 2009"" cites an article from the Financial Times website stating that the Chief of Defence Materiel, General Sir Kevin O’Donoghue, had instructed staff within Defence Equipment and Support through an internal memorandum to reprioritize the approvals process to focus on supporting current operations over the next three years; deterrence related programmes; those that reflect defence obligations both contractual or international; and those where production contracts are already signed"	Who was the Chief of Defence Materiel in 2009?
"The Ministry of Defence is one of the United Kingdom's largest landowners, owning 227,300 hectares of land and foreshore at April 2014, which was valued at ""about £20 billion"""	How much land is owned by the MoD?
5%), storage & supply depots (1	What makes up the smallest portion of the defence estate?
5	What percentage of storage and supply depots are part of airfields as the largest percentage?
5	What percentage of airfields are managed by training areas and ranges?
5	What percentage of barracks & camps are managed by airfields?
5	What percentage of research and development is managed by airfields?
The headquarters of the MoD are in Whitehall and are now known as Main Building	In what city are the headquarters of the MoD?
Henry VIII's wine cellar at the Palace of Whitehall, built in 1514–1516 for Cardinal Wolsey, is in the basement of Main Building, and is used for entertainment	Who had a wine cellar at the Palace of Whitehall?
The most notable fraud conviction was that of Gordon Foxley, head of defence procurement at the Ministry of Defence from 1981 to 1984	Who in the MoD was convicted of fraud?
"A government report covered by the Guardian in 2002 indicates that between 1940 and 1979, the Ministry of Defence ""turned large parts of the country into a giant laboratory to conduct a series of secret germ warfare tests on the public"" and many of these tests ""involved releasing potentially dangerous chemicals and micro-organisms over vast swaths of the population without the public being told"	What publication released a report about the Ministry of Defence in 2002?
The MoD has been criticised for an ongoing fiasco, having spent £240m on eight Chinook HC3 helicopters which only started to enter service in 2010, years after they were ordered in 1995 and delivered in 2001	How much did the MoD spend on Chinook helicopters?
"In April 2008, a £90m contract was signed with Boeing for a ""quick fix"" solution, so they can fly by 2010: QinetiQ will downgrade the Chinooks—stripping out some of their more advanced equipment"	Which aircraft manufacturer got a contract with the MoD?
In October 2009, the MoD was heavily criticized for withdrawing the bi-annual non-operational training £20m budget for the volunteer Territorial Army , ending all non-operational training for 6 months until April 2010	When was the TA budget withdrawn?
In 2013 it was found that the Ministry of Defence had overspent on its equipment budget by £6	When was the overbudget amount discovered?
The term high definition once described a series of television systems originating from August 1936; however, these systems were only high definition when compared to earlier systems that were based on mechanical systems with as few as 30 lines of resolution	"The term ""high definition"" originally described televisions systems from what year?"
The British high-definition TV service started trials in August 1936 and a regular service on 2 November 1936 using both the Baird 240 line sequential scan and the Marconi-EMI 405 line interlaced systems	Who started trials in August 1936?
Colour broadcasts started at similarly higher resolutions, first with the US NTSC color system in 1953, which was compatible with the earlier monochrome systems and therefore had the same 525 lines of resolution	What year did color broadcasts start in the US?
"The Nippon Hōsō Kyōkai began conducting research to ""unlock the fundamental mechanism of video and sound interactions with the five human senses"" in 1964, after the Tokyo Olympics"	What is the Japan Broadcasting Corporation called?
There were four major HDTV systems tested by SMPTE in the late 1970s, and in 1979 an SMPTE study group released A Study of High Definition Television Systems:	How many major HDTV systems were tested by SMPTE in the late 70's?
Since the formal adoption of digital video broadcasting's widescreen HDTV transmission modes in the early 2000s; the 525-line NTSC systems, as well as the European 625-line PAL and SECAM systems, are now regarded as standard definition television systems	When was widescreen HDTV transmission modes formally adopted?
In 1949, France started its transmissions with an 819 lines system 	In what year did France start transmissions using and 819 line system?
It was a research project and the system was never deployed by either the military or consumer broadcasting	In the end what was the Soviet Union's Transformator system used for?
In 1979, the Japanese state broadcaster NHK first developed consumer high-definition television with a 5:3 display aspect ratio	In what year did NHK first develop consumer HD television with a 5:3 aspect ratio?
In 1981, the MUSE system was demonstrated for the first time in the United States, using the same 5:3 aspect ratio as the Japanese system	When was the MUSE system demonstrated in the US first?
Several systems were proposed as the new standard for the US, including the Japanese MUSE system, but all were rejected by the FCC because of their higher bandwidth requirements	Why did the FCC reject systems such as MUSE?
The limited standardization of analog HDTV in the 1990s did not lead to global HDTV adoption as technical and economic constraints at the time did not permit HDTV to use bandwidths greater than normal television	What constraints kept HDTV from being widely adopted in the 90's?
Early HDTV commercial experiments, such as NHK's MUSE, required over four times the bandwidth of a standard-definition broadcast	How much more bandwith was required from early HDTV commercial experiments than an SD broadcast?
Japan remained the only country with successful public broadcasting of analog HDTV, with seven broadcasters sharing a single channel	How many broadcasters did Japan have sharing a single channel?
Since 1972, International Telecommunication Union's radio telecommunications sector had been working on creating a global recommendation for Analog HDTV	What does ITU-R stand for?
In the US the Grand Alliance proposed ATSC as the new standard for SDTV and HDTV	What did the Grand Alliance propose as the new standard for SDTV and HDTV?
In 1983, the International Telecommunication Union's radio telecommunications sector set up a working party with the aim of setting a single international HDTV standard	When did ITU-R start trying to work towards setting a single international HDTV standard?
Initially the existing 5:3 aspect ratio had been the main candidate but, due to the influence of widescreen cinema, the aspect ratio 16:9 (1	What aspect ratio was agreed upon due to the influence of widescreen cinema?
It also includes the alternative 1440×1152 HDMAC scan format	What scan format is also included in MBAFF?
HDTV technology was introduced in the United States in the late 1980s and made official in 1993 by the Digital HDTV Grand Alliance, a group of television, electronic equipment, communications companies consisting of AT&T Bell Labs, General Instrument, Philips, Sarnoff, Thomson, Zenith and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology	When was HDTV introduced in the US?
The first HDTV transmissions in Europe, albeit not direct-to-home, began in 1990, when the Italian broadcaster RAI used the HD-MAC and MUSE HDTV technologies to broadcast the 1990 FIFA World Cup	When did the first HDTV transmissions happen in Europe?
The first regular broadcasts started on January 1, 2004 when the Belgian company Euro1080 launched the HD1 channel with the traditional Vienna New Year's Concert	When did regular broadcasts start in Europe?
"Euro1080, a division of the former and now bankrupt Belgian TV services company Alfacam, broadcast HDTV channels to break the pan-European stalemate of ""no HD broadcasts mean no HD TVs bought means no HD broadcasts"	Euro1080 was a division of what former company?
These first European HDTV broadcasts used the 1080i format with MPEG-2 compression on a DVB-S signal from SES's Astra 1H satellite	What format did the first European HDTV broadcast use?
Despite delays in some countries, the number of European HD channels and viewers has risen steadily since the first HDTV broadcasts, with SES's annual Satellite Monitor market survey for 2010 reporting more than 200 commercial channels broadcasting in HD from Astra satellites, 185 million HD capable TVs sold in Europe , and 20 million households watching HD satellite broadcasts 	According to the 2010 Satellite Monitor market survey, how many HD capable TV's were sold in Europe?
In December 2009 the United Kingdom became the first European country to deploy high definition content using the new DVB-T2 transmission standard, as specified in the Digital TV Group D-book, on digital terrestrial television	Which European country first deployed HD content using the new DVB-T2 standard?
The Freeview HD service currently contains 10 HD channels ) and was rolled out region by region across the UK in accordance with the digital switchover process, finally being completed in October 2012	How many HD channels did the Freeview HD service contain as of December 2013?
If all three parameters are used, they are specified in the following form: or /	What are the three HDTV parameters?
For example, 1920×1080p25 identifies progressive scanning format with 25 frames per second, each frame being 1,920 pixels wide and 1,080 pixels high	What size is each 1920x1080p25 frame?
50 Hz systems support three scanning rates: 50i, 25p and 50p	What three scanning rates do 50 Hz systems support?
For the commercial naming of a product, the frame rate is often dropped and is implied from context (e	What is usually dropped for the commercial naming of an HDTV product?
There is no single standard for HDTV color support	Is there a single standard for HDTV color support?
At a minimum, HDTV has twice the linear resolution of standard-definition television , thus showing greater detail than either analog television or regular DVD	At least how many times more linear resolution does HDTV have over SDTV?
A very high resolution source may require more bandwidth than available in order to be transmitted without loss of fidelity	If more bandwith is required than is available, a very high resolution source my not be able to transmitted without loss of what?
The optimum format for a broadcast depends upon the type of videographic recording medium used and the image's characteristics	A broadcasts optimum format depends on what two things?
PAL, SECAM and NTSC frame rates technically apply only to analogue standard definition television, not to digital or high definition broadcasts	PAL, SECAM, and NTSC frame rates apply to what definition televisions?
Standard 35mm photographic film used for cinema projection has a much higher image resolution than HDTV systems, and is exposed and projected at a rate of 24 frames per second 	At what rate is standard 35mm photographic film exposed and projected?
Non-cinematic HDTV video recordings intended for broadcast are typically recorded either in 720p or 1080i format as determined by the broadcaster	What two formats are typically used to recorde non-cinematic HDTV video intended for broadcast?
In the US, residents in the line of sight of television station broadcast antennas can receive free, over the air programming with a television set with an ATSC tuner 	In the US, what kind of tuner is needed for residents to receive free, over the air programming?
Additionally, cable-ready TV sets can display HD content without using an external box	HD content can be displayed by cable-ready TVs without using what?
High-definition image sources include terrestrial broadcast, direct broadcast satellite, digital cable, IPTV , Blu-ray video disc , and internet downloads	Roku and AppleTV are examples of what?
Sony's PlayStation 3 has extensive HD compatibility because of its built in Blu-ray disc based player, so does Microsoft's Xbox 360 with the addition of Netflix and Windows Media Center HTPC streaming capabilities, and the Zune marketplace where users can rent or purchase digital HD content	Why does the PlayStation 3 have extensive HD compatibility?
HDTV can be recorded to D-VHS , W-VHS , to an HDTV-capable digital video recorder , or an HDTV-ready HTPC	Sky HD's set-top box, TiVo's Series 3, and Dish Network's VIP 622 are examples of what?
In 2008, the Hauppauge 1212 Personal Video Recorder was introduced	When was the Hauppauge 1212 Personal Video Recorder introduced?
Analog tape recorders with bandwidth capable of recording analog HD signals, such as W-VHS recorders, are no longer produced for the consumer market and are both expensive and scarce in the secondary market	W-VHS recorders are capable of recording what kinds of signals?
As of July 2004, boxes are not included in the FCC mandate	"When were boxes with ""functional"" FireWire no longer included in the FCC mandate?"
It has been used for thousands of years for both fuel and as a construction material	In addition to being used to build things, what has wood been used for over thousands of years?
The Earth contains about 434 billion cubic meters of growing stock forest, 47% of which is commercial	How many cubic meters of growing stock forest are there on the planet?
A 2011 discovery in the Canadian province of New Brunswick uncovered the earliest known plants to have grown wood, approximately 395 to 400 million years ago	What year were the earliest plants that grew wood discovered?
People have used wood for millennia for many purposes, primarily as a fuel or as a construction material for making houses, tools, weapons, furniture, packaging, artworks, and paper	What has been the primary purpose of wood for millennia other than fuel?
Wood, in the strict sense, is yielded by trees, which increase in diameter by the formation, between the existing wood and the inner bark, of new woody layers which envelop the entire stem, living branches, and roots	Where does wood come from?
If there are differences within a growth ring, then the part of a growth ring nearest the center of the tree, and formed early in the growing season when growth is rapid, is usually composed of wider elements	If a growth ring has differences over one season, would the part nearest the tree's center be narrower or wider?
A knot is a particular type of imperfection in a piece of wood; it will affect the technical properties of the wood, usually reducing the local strength and increasing the tendency for splitting along the wood grain, but may be exploited for visual effect	What is the sort of circular imperfection in a piece of wood called?
In the tree a knot is either the base of a side branch or a dormant bud	Other than the base of a side branch, what tree feature causes a knot?
During the development of a tree, the lower limbs often die, but may remain attached for a time, sometimes years	What will the lower limbs of a tree usually do during development?
In grading lumber and structural timber, knots are classified according to their form, size, soundness, and the firmness with which they are held in place	What's the process in which knots are classified called?
Stiffness and elastic strength are more dependent upon the sound wood than upon localized defects	What is wood's breaking strength susceptible to? 
In some decorative applications, wood with knots may be desirable to add visual interest	What positive visual component can knots sometimes add to decorative pieces?
Heartwood is wood that as a result of a naturally occurring chemical transformation has become more resistant to decay	"What's another word for ""duramen""?"
Heartwood is often visually distinct from the living sapwood, and can be distinguished in a cross-section where the boundary will tend to follow the growth rings	In what part of a tree's cross-section is heartwood visible?
Sapwood is the younger, outermost wood; in the growing tree it is living wood, and its principal functions are to conduct water from the roots to the leaves and to store up and give back according to the season the reserves prepared in the leaves	"What term is interchangeable with ""sapwood""?"
Some species begin to form heartwood very early in life, so having only a thin layer of live sapwood, while in others the change comes slowly	If a tree starts forming heartwood right away, will its sapwood layer be thin or thick?
Within the same species the cross-sectional area of the sapwood is very roughly proportional to the size of the crown of the tree	What part of a tree is the cross-sectional area of the sapwood approximately proportional to?
When a tree is very young it is covered with limbs almost, if not entirely, to the ground, but as it grows older some or all of them will eventually die and are either broken off or fall off	What usually covers the whole trunk of a very young tree?
Every broken limb or root, or deep wound from fire, insects, or falling timber, may afford an entrance for decay, which, once started, may penetrate to all parts of the trunk	What do broken limbs and deep wounds open a door for in a tree?
If a tree grows all its life in the open and the conditions of soil and site remain unchanged, it will make its most rapid growth in youth, and gradually decline	In what stage of its life does a tree usually grow the fastest?
Different pieces of wood cut from a large tree may differ decidedly, particularly if the tree is big and mature	When a big tree is cut up, will the pieces of wood differ or all be the same?
In species which show a distinct difference between heartwood and sapwood the natural color of heartwood is usually darker than that of the sapwood, and very frequently the contrast is conspicuous 	When trees have a visible difference in color between sapwood and heartwood, which is darker?
Some experiments on very resinous Longleaf Pine specimens indicate an increase in strength, due to the resin which increases the strength when dry	What type of tree has resin that makes it stronger when it dries?
Since the latewood of a growth ring is usually darker in color than the earlywood, this fact may be used in judging the density, and therefore the hardness and strength of the material	Which of the wood in a growth ring is usually darker?
Abnormal discoloration of wood often denotes a diseased condition, indicating unsoundness	What condition does an abnormal color usually indicate in wood?
Wood that is thoroughly air-dried retains 8–16% of the water in the cell walls, and none, or practically none, in the other forms	What does wood retain in its cell walls despite being air-dried?
The general effect of the water content upon the wood substance is to render it softer and more pliable	Often the water in wood makes it more pliable and what else?
Drying produces a decided increase in the strength of wood, particularly in small specimens	What will drying often increase in wood?
The greatest strength increase due to drying is in the ultimate crushing strength, and strength at elastic limit in endwise compression; these are followed by the modulus of rupture, and stress at elastic limit in cross-bending, while the modulus of elasticity is least affected	"What type of ""ultimate"" strength is one of the two types increased the most by drying wood?"
Wood is a heterogeneous, hygroscopic, cellular and anisotropic material	Along with hygroscopic, cellular, and anisotropic, how is the material of wood described?
In coniferous or softwood species the wood cells are mostly of one kind, tracheids, and as a result the material is much more uniform in structure than that of most hardwoods	What type of cells makes up most wood cells in coniferous trees?
The structure of hardwoods is more complex	Is the structure of hardwood simple or complex?
In ring-porous species, such as ash, black locust, catalpa, chestnut, elm, hickory, mulberry, and oak, the larger vessels or pores are localised in the part of the growth ring formed in spring, thus forming a region of more or less open and porous tissue	What species of hardwood are hickory and mulberry trees?
In diffuse-porous woods the pores are evenly sized so that the water conducting capability is scattered throughout the growth ring instead of being collected in a band or row	What kind of woods have pores that are uniformly sized?
In temperate softwoods there often is a marked difference between latewood and earlywood	What kind of softwoods often have significant differences in their earlywood and latewood?
If a heavy piece of pine is compared with a lightweight piece it will be seen at once that the heavier one contains a larger proportion of latewood than the other, and is therefore showing more clearly demarcated growth rings	Comparing a heavy and a lightweight piece of wood from a pine, which would have a greater proportion of latewood?
It is not only the proportion of latewood, but also its quality, that counts	Having a high proportion of latewood isn't all that matters; what else is important?
The quality of the site where the tree grows undoubtedly affects the character of the wood formed, though it is not possible to formulate a rule governing it	What facet of wood is affected to some degree by the place where the tree grows?
In ring-porous woods each season's growth is always well defined, because the large pores formed early in the season abut on the denser tissue of the year before	What kind of woods always have very clearly marked seasonal growth?
In the case of the ring-porous hardwoods there seems to exist a pretty definite relation between the rate of growth of timber and its properties	Ring-porous hardwoods have a clear relationship between their properties and what other factor?
In ring-porous woods of good growth it is usually the latewood in which the thick-walled, strength-giving fibers are most abundant	Which specific type of wood within ring-porous woods have more fibers to make it strong?
"Wide-ringed wood is often called ""second-growth"", because the growth of the young timber in open stands after the old trees have been removed is more rapid than in trees in a closed forest, and in the manufacture of articles where strength is an important consideration such ""second-growth"" hardwood material is preferred"	What term is sometimes used for wood with wide rings?
In the diffuse-porous woods, the demarcation between rings is not always so clear and in some cases is almost invisible to the unaided eye	What kind of wood often has ring divisions that can't even be seen by looking at it?
In diffuse-porous woods, as has been stated, the vessels or pores are even-sized, so that the water conducting capability is scattered throughout the ring instead of collected in the earlywood	What kind of wood has all similarly sized vessels?
"Structural material that resembles ordinary, ""dicot"" or conifer wood in its gross handling characteristics is produced by a number of monocot plants, and these also are colloquially called wood"	"What's another term used for ""conifer"" wood?"
The single most revealing property of wood as an indicator of wood quality is specific gravity , as both pulp yield and lumber strength are determined by it	Which property of wood reveals the most about its quality?
Wood density is determined by multiple growth and physiological factors compounded into “one fairly easily measured wood characteristic” 	Along with growth, what kind of factors determine the density of wood?
Variation is to be expected	What should be anticipated because of the many factors that influence wood's density?
It is common to classify wood as either softwood or hardwood	What term do we use for the wood that comes from pine trees?
There is a strong relationship between the properties of wood and the properties of the particular tree that yielded it	What kind of relationship exists between a tree's properties and its wood's properties?
The chemical composition of wood varies from species to species, but is approximately 50% carbon, 42% oxygen, 6% hydrogen, 1% nitrogen, and 1% other elements by weight	What approximate percentage of carbon does wood have?
Aside from water, wood has three main components	How many main components make up wood, not counting water?
In chemical terms, the difference between hardwood and softwood is reflected in the composition of the constituent lignin	What component of wood determines whether it is hardwood or softwood?
Aside from the lignocellulose, wood consists of a variety of low molecular weight organic compounds, called extractives	What's the name for the low molecular weight organic compounds in wood?
Hardwood is preferred over softwood because it creates less smoke and burns longer	What type of wood is preferred as fuel?
Elm in particular was used for this purpose as it resisted decay as long as it was kept wet 	What wood is decay-resistant when wet?
Wood to be used for construction work is commonly known as lumber in North America	What term is used in North America for wood used in construction?
New domestic housing in many parts of the world today is commonly made from timber-framed construction	What type of construction is often used now to build homes in much of the world?
In buildings made of other materials, wood will still be found as a supporting material, especially in roof construction, in interior doors and their frames, and as exterior cladding	What might wood be used for in a building made from brick or other materials?
"Engineered wood products, glued building products ""engineered"" for application-specific performance requirements, are often used in construction and industrial applications"	What holds together an engineered wood product?
These products include glued laminated timber , wood structural panels , laminated veneer lumber and other structural composite lumber products, parallel strand lumber, and I-joists	What category do composite panels, strand board, and plywood all fit into?
Wood unsuitable for construction in its native form may be broken down mechanically or chemically and used as a raw material for other building materials, such as engineered wood, as well as chipboard, hardboard, and medium-density fiberboard 	What material results from chemically breaking down wood?
Wood has always been used extensively for furniture, such as chairs and beds	What category of products usually made from wood includes chairs?
Moisture content electronic monitoring can also enhance next generation wood protection	What could we monitor electronically that could help inform new methods of wood protection?
It has been used to make sculptures and carvings for millennia	Along with sculptures, what type of art have people been making out of wood for centuries?
The choice of wood may make a significant difference to the tone and resonant qualities of the instrument, and tonewoods have widely differing properties, ranging from the hard and dense african blackwood to the light but resonant European spruce , which is traditionally used for the soundboards of violins	What kind of wood are clarinet bodies made from?
Despite their collective name, not all woodwind instruments are made entirely of wood	What type of instruments with a misleading name aren't always made completely out of wood?
For example, cricket bats are typically made of white willow	What wood is usually used for cricket bats?
Many other types of sports and recreation equipment, such as skis, ice hockey sticks, lacrosse sticks and archery bows, were commonly made of wood in the past, but have since been replaced with more modern materials such as aluminium, fiberglass, carbon fiber, titanium, and composite materials	What pieces of equipment for shooting arrows used to be wooden?
Little is known about the bacteria that degrade cellulose	What component of wood is degraded by bacteria that scientists are still trying to learn about?
The overwhelming majority of Somalis speak the Somali language, which is part of the Cushitic branch of the Afro-Asiatic family	What language family is Somali a part of?
Irir Samaale, the oldest common ancestor of several Somali clans, is generally regarded as the source of the ethnonym Somali	From whom are several Somali clans descended?
"An Ancient Chinese document from the 9th century referred to the northern Somali coast — which was then called ""Berbera"" by Arab geographers in reference to the region's ""Berber"" inhabitants — as Po-pa-li"	What did the Arabs call the northern Somali coast in the 9th century?
Ancient rock paintings in Somalia which date back to 5000 years have been found in the northern part of the country, depicting early life in the territory	How long ago were rock paintings found in Somalia created?
During the Stone age, the Doian culture and the Hargeisan culture flourished here with their respective industries and factories	Along with the Hargesian culture, what culture was present in Somalia in the Stone age?
The oldest evidence of burial customs in the Horn of Africa comes from cemeteries in Somalia dating back to 4th millennium BC	In what country is the oldest evidence of ceremonial burial in the Horn of Africa located?
In antiquity, the ancestors of the Somali people were an important link in the Horn of Africa connecting the region's commerce with the rest of the ancient world	What economic activity in the Horn of Africa did the ancient Somalis connect to the rest of the world?
According to most scholars, the ancient Land of Punt and its inhabitants formed part of the ethnogenesis of the Somali people	What ancient land was connected to the modern Somali people?
In the classical era, several ancient city-states such as Opone, Essina, Sarapion, Nikon, Malao, Damo and Mosylon near Cape Guardafui, which competed with the Sabaeans, Parthians and Axumites for the wealthy Indo-Greco-Roman trade, also flourished in Somalia	Near what headland was Mosylon located?
The birth of Islam on the opposite side of Somalia's Red Sea coast meant that Somali merchants, sailors and expatriates living in the Arabian Peninsula gradually came under the influence of the new religion through their converted Arab Muslim trading partners	What body of water separated Somalia from the land where Islam was born?
The Sultanate of Ifat, led by the Walashma dynasty with its capital at Zeila, ruled over parts of what is now eastern Ethiopia, Djibouti, and northern Somalia	What dynasty ruled the Sultanate of Ifat?
In the Middle Ages, several powerful Somali empires dominated the regional trade including the Ajuran Sultanate, which excelled in hydraulic engineering and fortress building, the Sultanate of Adal, whose general Ahmad ibn Ibrahim al-Ghazi was the first commander to use cannon warfare on the continent during Adal's conquest of the Ethiopian Empire, and the Sultanate of the Geledi, whose military dominance forced governors of the Omani empire north of the city of Lamu to pay tribute to the Somali Sultan Ahmed Yusuf	What Somali polity of the Middle Ages was known for its fortresses?
As a result of its successes against the British, the Dervish State received support from the Ottoman and German empires	What states supported the Dervish State?
Following World War II, Britain retained control of both British Somaliland and Italian Somaliland as protectorates	Along with British Somaliland, what country in the region was a British protectorate after the Second World War?
"Meanwhile, in 1948, under pressure from their World War II allies and to the dismay of the Somalis, the British ""returned"" the Haud and the Ogaden to Ethiopia, based on a treaty they signed in 1897 in which the British ceded Somali territory to the Ethiopian Emperor Menelik in exchange for his help against plundering by Somali clans"	Along with the Haud, what area of Somalia was given to Ethiopia by the British?
A referendum was held in neighboring Djibouti in 1958, on the eve of Somalia's independence in 1960, to decide whether or not to join the Somali Republic or to remain with France	What was Djibouti called in 1958?
British Somaliland became independent on 26 June 1960 as the State of Somaliland, and the Trust Territory of Somalia followed suit five days later	On what date did British Somaliland gain independence?
On 15 October 1969, while paying a visit to the northern town of Las Anod, Somalia's then President Abdirashid Ali Shermarke was shot dead by one of his own bodyguards	On what date was Abdirashid Ali Shermarke assassinated?
Alongside Barre, the Supreme Revolutionary Council that assumed power after President Sharmarke's assassination was led by Lieutenant Colonel Salaad Gabeyre Kediye and Chief of Police Jama Korshel	Along with Jama Korshel, who led the Supreme Revolutionary Council?
In addition to a nationalization program of industry and land, the new regime's foreign policy placed an emphasis on Somalia's traditional and religious links with the Arab world, eventually joining the Arab League in 1974	What did the new government nationalize along with land?
Somali people in the Horn of Africa are divided among different countries that were artificially and some might say arbitrarily partitioned by the former imperial powers	Along with Kenya, Djibouti and Somalia, in what Horn of Africa country do Somali people live?
, Cruciani et al	In what year did Sanchez publish his study on Somali ethnicity?
, a significant proportion of the maternal lineages of Somalis consists of the M1 haplogroup	When did Richards publish his mtDNA research?
", the Afro-Asiatic languages were likely spread across Africa and the Near East by an ancestral population carrying a newly identified non-African genetic component, which the researchers dub the ""Ethio-Somali"""	When did Hodgson publish his DNA study?
The early persecuted Muslims fled to various places in the region, including the city of Zeila in modern-day northern Somalia, so as to seek protection from the Quraysh	In what geographic part of Somalia is Zeila located?
Qur'anic schools remain the basic system of traditional religious instruction in Somalia	What is another name for a Qur'anic school?
In the Somali diaspora, multiple Islamic fundraising events are held every year in cities like Birmingham, London, Toronto and Minneapolis, where Somali scholars and professionals give lectures and answer questions from the audience	Along with Minneapolis, London and Birmingham, what city contains a notable population of Somalis?
In addition, the Somali community has produced numerous important Muslim figures over the centuries, many of whom have significantly shaped the course of Islamic learning and practice in the Horn of Africa, the Arabian Peninsula and well beyond	Along with the Horn of Africa, what is a notable location where Somali Islamic figures have been influential?
The clan groupings of the Somali people are important social units, and clan membership plays a central part in Somali culture and politics	What is a basic social unit of Somali society?
So to extend ties of alliance, marriage is often to another ethnic Somali from a different clan	What practice is often used to bind different clans together?
The 1975 Somali Family Law gave men and women equal division of property between the husband and wife upon divorce and the exclusive right to control by each spouse over his or her personal property	What law gave Somali husbands and wives equal rights over personal property?
Somalis constitute the largest ethnic group in Somalia, at approximately 85% of the nation's inhabitants	What is the biggest ethnic group in Somalia?
Civil strife in the early 1990s greatly increased the size of the Somali diaspora, as many of the best educated Somalis left for the Middle East, Europe and North America	What led to an increase in the number of Somalis leaving the country?
While the distribution of Somalis per country in Europe is hard to measure because the Somali community on the continent has grown so quickly in recent years, an official 2010 estimate reported 108,000 Somalis living in the United Kingdom	About how many Somalis live in the UK?
In the United States, Minneapolis, Saint Paul, Columbus, San Diego, Seattle, Washington, D	What country is Cedar Rapids located in?
state of Minnesota some ten years ago and the Twin Cities now have the highest population of Somalis in North America	Along with Saint Paul, what city constitutes the Twin Cities?
There is a sizable Somali community in the United Arab Emirates	In what Middle Eastern country is there a notable Somali population?
Primarily concentrated in the north and Khartoum, the expatriate community mainly consists of students as well as some businesspeople	Near what city in Sudan do many Somalis reside?
The Somali language is a member of the Cushitic branch of the Afro-Asiatic family	What language family does the Somali language belong to?
The Somali language is spoken by ethnic Somalis in Greater Somalia and the Somali diaspora	Along with Greater Somalia ethnic Somalis, who speaks Somali?
Somali dialects are divided into three main groups: Northern, Benaadir and Maay	Along with Northern and Maay, what is the third main group of Somali dialects?
Of these, the Somali alphabet is the most widely used, and has been the official writing script in Somalia since the government of former President of Somalia Mohamed Siad Barre formally introduced it in October 1972	What is the most frequently used writing script for the Somali language?
In addition to Somali, Arabic, which is also an Afro-Asiatic tongue, is an official national language in both Somalia and Djibouti	Other than Somali, what is an official language of Somalia?
The culture of Somalia is an amalgamation of traditions developed independently and through interaction with neighbouring and far away civilizations, such as other parts of Northeast Africa, the Arabian Peninsula, India and Southeast Asia	Civilizations from what geographic part of Africa influenced Somali culture?
The cultural diffusion of Somali commercial enterprise can be detected in its cuisine, which contains Southeast Asian influences	Somali food contains influences from what region?
All of these traditions, including festivals, martial arts, dress, literature, sport and games such as Shax, have immensely contributed to the enrichment of Somali heritage	What is a notable game that is played in Somalia?
Most Somali songs are pentatonic	What scale is used by most Somali songs?
Growing out of the Somali people's rich storytelling tradition, the first few feature-length Somali films and cinematic festivals emerged in the early 1960s, immediately after independence	In what decade were the first Somali feature films made?
Somali art is characterized by its aniconism, partly as a result of the vestigial influence of the pre-Islamic mythology of the Somalis coupled with their ubiquitous Muslim beliefs	What is a notable characteristic of Somali art?
Additionally, henna is an important part of Somali culture	What do Somali women wear on their feet during Eid?
Football is the most popular sport amongst Somalis	What sport do Somalis most enjoy?
The FIBA Africa Championship 1981 was hosted by Somalia from 15–23 December 1981	When did the 1981 FIBA African Championship take place?
In the martial arts, Faisal Jeylani Aweys and Mohamed Deq Abdulle also took home a silver medal and fourth place, respectively, at the 2013 Open World Taekwondo Challenge Cup in Tongeren	Who came in fourth in the 2013 Open World Taekwondo Challenge Cup?
On their heads, they often wrap a colorful turban or wear the koofiyad, an embroidered fez	What is a koofiyad?
Due to Somalia's proximity to and close ties with the Arabian Peninsula, many Somali men also wear the jellabiya , a long white garment common in the Arab world	What is the jellabiya?
During regular, day-to-day activities, Somali women usually wear the guntiino, a long stretch of cloth tied over the shoulder and draped around the waist	What is the regular garment of Somali women?
Married women tend to sport headscarves referred to as shaash	What is the name of the headscarf worn by married women?
Additionally, Somali women have a long tradition of wearing gold jewelry, particularly bangles	What is the jewelry worn by Somali women commonly made from?
It was created in 1954 by the Somali scholar Mohammed Awale Liban, after he had been selected by the labour trade union of the Trust Territory of Somalia to come up with a design	In what year was the Somali flag invented?
Despite the variety, there remains one thing that unites the various regional cuisines: all food is served halal	What is the one culinary tradition that is present among all Somali regional cuisines?
Qado or lunch is often elaborate	What is the English word for qado?
Xalwo is a popular confection eaten during festive occasions, such as Eid celebrations or wedding receptions	What is another term for xalwo?
With the adoption of the Latin alphabet in 1972 to transcribe the Somali language, numerous contemporary Somali authors have also released novels, some of which have gone on to receive worldwide acclaim	When did Somalis begin to render their language using the Latin alphabet?
Somalis for centuries have practiced a form of customary law, which they call Xeer	What is the Somali system of customary law?
The Xeer legal system is assumed to have developed exclusively in the Horn of Africa since approximately the 7th century	In what century did the Xeer system begin?
Thus, one can find odayal , xeer boggeyaal , guurtiyaal , garxajiyaal , murkhaatiyal and waranle to enforce the law	In the Xeer system, what are judges called?
Spanning the ancient, medieval and early modern periods in Greater Somalia, it also includes the fusion of Somalo-Islamic architecture with Western designs in contemporary times	Along with Somalo-Islamic architecture, what influences modern Somali architecture?
In ancient Somalia, pyramidical structures known in Somali as taalo were a popular burial style, with hundreds of these dry stone monuments scattered around the country today	What do Somalis call their ancient pyramids?
The peaceful introduction of Islam in the early medieval era of Somalia's history brought Islamic architectural influences from Arabia and Persia	During what period was the Muslim faith introduced to Somalia?
The scholarly term for research concerning Somalis and Greater Somalia is known as Somali Studies	What is the academic study of the Somali people called?
In European history, the Middle Ages or medieval period lasted from the 5th to the 15th century	In what century did the Middle Ages begin?
Depopulation, deurbanisation, invasion, and movement of peoples, which had begun in Late Antiquity, continued in the Early Middle Ages	Along with the movement of peoples, invasion and depopulation, what event started in Late Antiquity and continued into the Middle Ages?
During the High Middle Ages, which began after 1000, the population of Europe increased greatly as technological and agricultural innovations allowed trade to flourish and the Medieval Warm Period climate change allowed crop yields to increase	What year marked the beginning of the High Middle Ages?
The Late Middle Ages was marked by difficulties and calamities including famine, plague, and war, which significantly diminished the population of Europe; between 1347 and 1350, the Black Death killed about a third of Europeans	When did the Black Death end?
The Middle Ages is one of the three major periods in the most enduring scheme for analysing European history: classical civilisation, or Antiquity; the Middle Ages; and the Modern Period	Along with Antiquity and the Middle Ages, what is the other major division of European history?
"Medieval writers divided history into periods such as the ""Six Ages"" or the ""Four Empires"", and considered their time to be the last before the end of the world"	Along with the Six Ages, what other scheme did writers in the Middle Ages use to divide history?
The most commonly given starting point for the Middle Ages is 476, first used by Bruni	What date is usually given as the beginning of the Middle Ages?
The Roman Empire reached its greatest territorial extent during the 2nd century AD; the following two centuries witnessed the slow decline of Roman control over its outlying territories	In what century did the Roman Empire achieve its greatest extent?
284–305) split the empire into separately administered eastern and western halves in 286; the empire was not considered divided by its inhabitants or rulers, as legal and administrative promulgations in one division were considered valid in the other	In what year did Diocletian begin his reign?
In 376, the Ostrogoths, fleeing from the Huns, received permission from Emperor Valens (r	In what year did the Ostrogoths settle in the Roman Empire?
The deposition of the last emperor of the west, Romulus Augustus, in 476 has traditionally marked the end of the Western Roman Empire	Who was the last Western Roman Emperor?
408), Aspar (d	When did Aspar die?
Between the 5th and 8th centuries, new peoples and individuals filled the political void left by Roman centralised government	In what century did the Ostrogoths arrive in Italy?
Slavic peoples settled in Central and Eastern Europe and the Balkan Peninsula	People of what ethnicity settled in the Balkan Peninsula?
As Western Europe witnessed the formation of new kingdoms, the Eastern Roman Empire remained intact and experienced an economic revival that lasted into the early 7th century	In what century did the economic revival in the Eastern Roman Empire end?
It began gradually, but by the late 540s Slavic tribes were in Thrace and Illyrium, and had defeated an imperial army near Adrianople in 551	Who defeated the Eastern Roman Empire near Adrianople in 551?
420) dreamed that God rebuked him for spending more time reading Cicero than the Bible	What author would Jerome rather read than the Bible?
Changes also took place among laymen, as aristocratic culture focused on great feasts held in halls rather than on literary pursuits	What was the focus of aristocratic culture during this period?
Some peasants lived in large settlements that numbered as many as 700 inhabitants	How many people might live in a large peasant settlement?
Rome, for instance, shrank from a population of hundreds of thousands to around 30,000 by the end of the 6th century	About how many people lived in Rome at the end of the 500s?
Judaism was an active proselytising faith, and at least one Arab political leader converted to it	What was the ethnicity of a leader who converted to Judaism in this era?
The defeat of Muslim forces at the Battle of Poitiers in 732 led to the reconquest of southern France by the Franks, but the main reason for the halt of Islamic growth in Europe was the overthrow of the Umayyad dynasty and its replacement by the Abbasid dynasty	In what year did the Battle of Poitiers take place?
African goods stopped being imported into Europe, first disappearing from the interior and by the 7th century found only in a few cities such as Rome or Naples	Along with Naples, what city still traded African goods in the 7th century?
Gold continued to be minted until the end of the 7th century, when it was replaced by silver coins	During what century did gold coinage cease?
The eastern church used Greek instead of the western Latin	What language was used by the eastern church?
The register, or archived copies of the letters, of Pope Gregory the Great survived, and of those more than 850 letters, the vast majority were concerned with affairs in Italy or Constantinople	When did Gregory the Great become pope?
The Early Middle Ages witnessed the rise of monasticism in the West	What religious lifestyle arose in the Early Middle Ages?
The Frankish kingdom in northern Gaul split into kingdoms called Austrasia, Neustria, and Burgundy during the 6th and 7th centuries, all of them ruled by the Merovingian dynasty, who were descended from Clovis	Along with Austrasia and Neustria, what kingdom was originally part of the Frankish kingdom?
The Carolingian dynasty, as the successors to Charles Martel are known, officially took control of the kingdoms of Austrasia and Neustria in a coup of 753 led by Pippin III (r	What dynasty consisted of descendants of Charles Martel?
The coronation of Charlemagne as emperor on Christmas Day 800 is regarded as a turning point in medieval history, marking a return of the Western Roman Empire, since the new emperor ruled over much of the area previously controlled by the western emperors	On what date did Charlemagne assume the imperial title?
"Charlemagne's court in Aachen was the centre of the cultural revival sometimes referred to as the ""Carolingian Renaissance"""	Where was Charlemagne's court based?
Charlemagne planned to continue the Frankish tradition of dividing his kingdom between all his heirs, but was unable to do so as only one son, Louis the Pious (r	Who was Charlemagne's only living son in 813?
A three-year civil war followed his death	How many years did the civil war after the death of Louis the Pious last?
The Atlantic and northern shores were harassed by the Vikings, who also raided the British Isles and settled there as well as in Iceland	What group settled in Iceland during this period?
871–899) came to an agreement with the Viking invaders in the late 9th century, resulting in Danish settlements in Northumbria, Mercia, and parts of East Anglia	When did Alfred the Great begin his reign?
Missionary efforts to Scandinavia during the 9th and 10th centuries helped strengthen the growth of kingdoms such as Sweden, Denmark, and Norway, which gained power and territory	Along with Sweden and Norway, what country saw missionary activity in the 9th and 10th centuries?
913–959), members of the Macedonian dynasty	Of what dynasty was Leo VI a member?
Few large stone buildings were constructed between the Constantinian basilicas of the 4th century and the 8th century, although many smaller ones were built during the 6th and 7th centuries	When were the Constantinian basilicas built?
The various invading tribes had differing emphasis on types of soldiers—ranging from the primarily infantry Anglo-Saxon invaders of Britain to the Vandals and Visigoths, who had a high proportion of cavalry in their armies	What was the primary military arm of Anglo-Saxon armies?
Surviving religious works from the Early Middle Ages are mostly illuminated manuscripts and carved ivories, originally made for metalwork that has since been melted down	Along with carved ivories, what religious works of the Early Middle Ages were common?
The importance of infantry and light cavalry began to decline during the early Carolingian period, with a growing dominance of elite heavy cavalry	The importance of what military arm increased during the Carolingian era?
The estimated population of Europe grew from 35 to 80 million between 1000 and 1347, although the exact causes remain unclear: improved agricultural techniques, the decline of slaveholding, a more clement climate and the lack of invasion have all been suggested	What was the approximate population of Europe in 1347?
During the 11th and 12th centuries, these lands, or fiefs, came to be considered hereditary, and in most areas they were no longer divisible between all the heirs as had been the case in the early medieval period	In what centuries did fiefs become hereditary?
The clergy was divided into two types: the secular clergy, who lived out in the world, and the regular clergy, who lived under a religious rule and were usually monks	What group constituted the clergy along with the regular clergy?
Most Jews were confined to the cities, as they were not allowed to own land or be peasants	In what type of settlement did most Jews live?
Peasant women were usually responsible for taking care of the household, child-care, as well as gardening and animal husbandry near the house	Along with gardening, animal husbandry and child-care, what work did medieval peasant women do?
Commercial cities on the shores of the Baltic entered into agreements known as the Hanseatic League, and the Italian Maritime republics such as Venice, Genoa, and Pisa expanded their trade throughout the Mediterranean	What sea were the Hanseatic cities located on?
New kingdoms such as Hungary and Poland, after their conversion to Christianity, became Central European powers	Along with Poland, what Central European kingdom was formed during the High Middle Ages?
During the early High Middle Ages, Germany was ruled by the Ottonian dynasty, which struggled to control the powerful dukes ruling over territorial duchies tracing back to the Migration period	What dynasty controlled Germany in the early High Middle Ages?
They faced a powerful rival in the Dukes of Normandy, who in 1066 under William the Conqueror , conquered England (r	Who was Duke of Normandy in 1066?
In Iberia, the Christian states, which had been confined to the north-western part of the peninsula, began to push back against the Islamic states in the south, a period known as the Reconquista	What was the name of the Christian reconquest of Iberia from the Muslims?
In the 11th century, the Seljuk Turks took over much of the Middle East, occupying Persia during the 1040s, Armenia in the 1060s, and Jerusalem in 1070	During what decade did the Seljuk Turks occupy Armenia?
The First Crusade was proclaimed by Pope Urban II at the Council of Clermont in 1095 in response to a request from the Byzantine Emperor Alexios I Komnenos (r	What pope launched the First crusade?
Appeals from those states to the papacy led to further crusades, such as the Third Crusade, called to try to regain Jerusalem, which had been captured by Saladin (d	What was the purpose of the Third Crusade?
Popes called for crusades to take place elsewhere besides the Holy Land: in Spain, southern France, and along the Baltic	Along with the Baltic and Spain, in what area were crusades called?
"There was debate between the realists and the nominalists over the concept of ""universals"""	What group opposed the nominalists on the subject of universals?
"Often the stories were written down in the chansons de geste, or ""songs of great deeds"", such as The Song of Roland or The Song of Hildebrand"	What does chansons de geste mean in English?
Both secular law and canon law, or ecclesiastical law, were studied in the High Middle Ages	What is another name for canon law?
Among the results of the Greek and Islamic influence on this period in European history was the replacement of Roman numerals with the decimal positional number system and the invention of algebra, which allowed more advanced mathematics	What invention led to advances in mathematics?
Major technological advances included the invention of the windmill, the first mechanical clocks, the manufacture of distilled spirits, and the use of the astrolabe	Along with the astrolabe, windmill and distilled spirits, what was a notable technological advancement of the 12th and 13th centuries?
The development of a three-field rotation system for planting crops increased the usage of land from one half in use each year under the old two-field system to two-thirds under the new system, with a consequent increase in production	What fraction of land was under cultivation using the two-field system?
Ancillary structures included new town halls, houses, bridges, and tithe barns	Along with bridges, tithe barns and town halls, what notable new structures were built during this period?
 The increasing use of crossbows during the 12th and 13th centuries led to the use of closed-face helmets, heavy body armour, as well as horse armour	In what century did Europeans become aware of gunpowder?
"In the 10th century the establishment of churches and monasteries led to the development of stone architecture that elaborated vernacular Roman forms, from which the term ""Romanesque"" is derived"	In what century was Romanesque architecture first used?
Romanesque art, especially metalwork, was at its most sophisticated in Mosan art, in which distinct artistic personalities including Nicholas of Verdun (d	Who was a noted figure in Mosan art?
From the early 12th century, French builders developed the Gothic style, marked by the use of rib vaults, pointed arches, flying buttresses, and large stained glass windows	In what century did the Gothic style first flourish?
"During this period the practice of manuscript illumination gradually passed from monasteries to lay workshops, so that according to Janetta Benton ""by 1300 most monks bought their books in shops"", and the book of hours developed as a form of devotional book for lay-people"	Who noted that 14th century monks bought books in shops?
Monastic reform became an important issue during the 11th century, as elites began to worry that monks were not adhering to the rules binding them to a strictly religious life	In what century was thought given to monastic reform?
The ideals that it was based upon were brought to the papacy by Pope Leo IX , and provided the ideology of the clerical independence that led to the Investiture Controversy in the late 11th century	During what century did the Investiture Controversy occur?
New monastic orders were founded, including the Carthusians and the Cistercians	What monastic order did Bernard of Clairvaux belong to?
In the 13th century mendicant orders—the Franciscans and the Dominicans—who swore vows of poverty and earned their living by begging, were approved by the papacy	Along with the Dominicans, what mendicant order was founded in the 13th century?
The first years of the 14th century were marked by famines, culminating in the Great Famine of 1315–17	In what years did the Great Famine occur?
These troubles were followed in 1347 by the Black Death, a pandemic that spread throughout Europe during the following three years	When did the Black Death start?
The percentage of serfs amongst the peasantry declined from a high of 90 to closer to 50 per cent by the end of the period	By the end of this period, about what percentage of Western Europeans were serfs?
Jewish communities were expelled from England in 1290 and from France in 1306	In what year were the Jews expelled from England?
Strong, royalty-based nation states rose throughout Europe in the Late Middle Ages, particularly in England, France, and the Christian kingdoms of the Iberian Peninsula: Aragon, Castile, and Portugal	Along with Aragon and Castile, what Christian kingdom was present on the Iberian Peninsula?
They ran into difficulties when attempting to confiscate the holdings of the English kings in southern France, leading to the Hundred Years' War, waged from 1337 to 1453	When did the Hundred Years' War begin?
Further east, the kingdoms of Poland, Hungary, and Bohemia grew powerful	Along with Poland and Hungary, what Eastern European state grew in power?
Although the Palaeologi emperors recaptured Constantinople from the Western Europeans in 1261, they were never able to regain control of much of the former imperial lands	Emperors from what dynasty recaptured Constantinople in 1261?
"During the tumultuous 14th century, disputes within the leadership of the Church led to the Avignon Papacy of 1305–78, also called the ""Babylonian Captivity of the Papacy"" , and then to the Great Schism, lasting from 1378 to 1418, when there were two and later three rival popes, each supported by several states"	During what years did the Avignon Papacy occur?
1384), an English theologian, was condemned as a heretic in 1415 for teaching that the laity should have access to the text of the Bible as well as for holding views on the Eucharist that were contrary to church doctrine	Of what nationality was John Wycliffe?
The papacy further refined the practice in the Mass in the Late Middle Ages, holding that the clergy alone was allowed to partake of the wine in the Eucharist	In the Late Middle Ages, who was allowed to drink wine at Mass?
1348), led a reaction against scholasticism, objecting to the application of reason to faith	What school of thought was Duns Scotus opposed to?
Education remained mostly focused on the training of future clergy	What was the main purpose of education in this period?
1321), Petrarch (d	Along with Dante and Boccaccio, who was a notable Italian author of the 14th century?
Prince Henry the Navigator of Portugal (d	Explorers in the employ of what nation discovered the Azores?
One of the major developments in the military sphere during the Late Middle Ages was the increased use of infantry and light cavalry	Along with light cavalry, what military arm was used with increasing frequency in the Late Middle Ages?
In addition, the spinning wheel replaced the traditional distaff for spinning wool, tripling production	What was replaced by the spinning wheel?
International Gothic was a courtly style that reached much of Europe in the decades around 1400, producing masterpieces such as the Très Riches Heures du Duc de Berry	Around what year did the International Gothic style flourish?
The large external sculptural schemes of Early Gothic churches gave way to more sculpture inside the building, as tombs became more elaborate and other features such as pulpits were sometimes lavishly carved, as in the Pulpit by Giovanni Pisano in Sant'Andrea	Who carved the Pulpit in Sant'Andrea?
""" This is a legacy from both the Renaissance and Enlightenment, when scholars contrasted their intellectual cultures with those of the medieval period, to the detriment of the Middle Ages"	Along with the Renaissance, during what period were the Middle Ages disparaged?
"Science historian Edward Grant writes, ""If revolutionary rational thoughts were expressed , they were only made possible because of the long medieval tradition that established the use of reason as one of the most important of human activities"""	What is Edward Grant a historian of?
One misconception, first propagated in the 19th century and still very common, is that all people in the Middle Ages believed that the Earth was flat	During what century was it first proposed that people in the Middle Ages thought the Earth was flat?
Phonology is a branch of linguistics concerned with the systematic organization of sounds in languages	What is phonology a branch of?
The word phonology can also refer to the phonological system of a given language	What part of a language can phonology as a word also refer to?
Phonology is often distinguished from phonetics	What branch of linguistics is phonology distinguished from?
"The word phonology comes from the Greek φωνή, phōnḗ, ""voice, sound,"" and the suffix -logy "	What language does phonology as a word come from?
The history of phonology may be traced back to the Ashtadhyayi, the Sanskrit grammar composed by Pāṇini in the 4th century BC	What type of grammar was phonology first a part of?
The Polish scholar Jan Baudouin de Courtenay introduced the concept of the phoneme in 1876, and his work, though often unacknowledged, is considered to be the starting point of modern phonology	When was the phoneme as a concept introduced?
One of its leading members was Prince Nikolai Trubetzkoy, whose Grundzüge der Phonologie , published posthumously in 1939, is among the most important works in the field from this period	What was Nikolai Trubetzkoy's publication?
In 1968 Noam Chomsky and Morris Halle published The Sound Pattern of English , the basis for generative phonology	When was The Sound Pattern of English published?
Natural phonology is a theory based on the publications of its proponent David Stampe in 1969 and in 1979	Whose publications started the theory of Natural phonology?
In 1976 John Goldsmith introduced autosegmental phonology	Who founded autosegmental phonology?
Government phonology, which originated in the early 1980s as an attempt to unify theoretical notions of syntactic and phonological structures, is based on the notion that all languages necessarily follow a small set of principles and vary according to their selection of certain binary parameters	When was Government phonology first seen?
In a course at the LSA summer institute in 1991, Alan Prince and Paul Smolensky developed optimality theory—an overall architecture for phonology according to which languages choose a pronunciation of a word that best satisfies a list of constraints ordered by importance; a lower-ranked constraint can be violated when the violation is necessary in order to obey a higher-ranked constraint	When did Prince and Smolensky develop their theory?
Broadly speaking, government phonology has a greater following in the United Kingdom, whereas optimality theory is predominant in the United States	What followed government phonology?
An integrated approach to phonological theory that combines synchronic and diachronic accounts to sound patterns was initiated with Evolutionary Phonology in recent years	What is Evolutionary Phonology an integrated approach to?
An important part of traditional, pre-generative schools of phonology is studying which sounds can be grouped into distinctive units within a language; these units are known as phonemes	What are the units called that traditional phonology studies?
Part of the phonological study of a language therefore involves looking at data and trying to deduce what the underlying phonemes are and what the sound inventory of the language is	What type of language study involves trying to deduce underlying phonomes?
This is one of the main factors of historical change of languages as described in historical linguistics	What kind of linguistics describes how factors of languages change in history?
The findings and insights of speech perception and articulation research complicate the traditional and somewhat intuitive idea of interchangeable allophones being perceived as the same phoneme	How do speech perception and articulation findings and insights affect previous and more traditional ideas?
Different linguists therefore take different approaches to the problem of assigning sounds to phonemes	What are assigned to phonemes by different linguists?
Since the early 1960s, theoretical linguists have moved away from the traditional concept of a phoneme, preferring to consider basic units at a more abstract level, as a component of morphemes; these units can be called morphophonemes, and analysis using this approach is called morphophonology	When did theoretical linguists turn away traditional phoneme concepts?
In addition to the minimal units that can serve the purpose of differentiating meaning , phonology studies how sounds alternate, i	What do phonemes differentiate? 
Phonology also includes topics such as phonotactics and phonological alternation as well as prosody, the study of suprasegmentals and topics such as stress and intonation	Under what topic is suprasegmentals studied?
The principles of phonological analysis can be applied independently of modality because they are designed to serve as general analytical tools, not language-specific ones	Instead of being language-specific what kind of tools are the principles of phonological analysis designed to be?
Conventionally, a computer consists of at least one processing element, typically a central processing unit , and some form of memory	In computer terms, what does CPU stand for?
Mechanical analog computers started appearing in the first century and were later used in the medieval era for astronomical calculations	What were analog computers originally used for?
Modern computers based on integrated circuits are millions to billions of times more capable than the early machines, and occupy a fraction of the space	Computers in today's age are based on what that make them much faster than earlier computers?
"The first known use of the word ""computer"" was in 1613 in a book called The Yong Mans Gleanings by English writer Richard Braithwait: ""I haue read the truest computer of Times, and the best Arithmetician that euer breathed, and he reduceth thy dayes into a short number"	"When was the first known use of the word ""computer""?"
The earliest counting device was probably a form of tally stick	The earliest device to help count was what?
T	Calculi during the Fertile Crescent refers to what?
The abacus was initially used for arithmetic tasks	What was the abacus first used for?
"The Antikythera mechanism is believed to be the earliest mechanical analog ""computer"", according to Derek J"	What is thought to be the first mechanical analog computer?
The planisphere was a star chart invented by Abū Rayhān al-Bīrūnī in the early 11th century	Who invented the planisphere?
The sector, a calculating instrument used for solving problems in proportion, trigonometry, multiplication and division, and for various functions, such as squares and cube roots, was developed in the late 16th century and found application in gunnery, surveying and navigation	The sector, a calculating instrument, was invented during what century?
The slide rule was invented around 1620–1630, shortly after the publication of the concept of the logarithm	When was the slide rule first invented?
In the 1770s Pierre Jaquet-Droz, a Swiss watchmaker, built a mechanical doll that could write holding a quill pen	What was the profession of Pierre Jaquet-Droz?
The tide-predicting machine invented by Sir William Thomson in 1872 was of great utility to navigation in shallow waters	When was the tide-predicting machine invented by Sir William Thomson invented?
The differential analyser, a mechanical analog computer designed to solve differential equations by integration, used wheel-and-disc mechanisms to perform the integration	What type of mechanisms did the differential analyzer use?
Charles Babbage, an English mechanical engineer and polymath, originated the concept of a programmable computer	Who invented the concept of a programmable computer?
Nevertheless, his son, Henry Babbage, completed a simplified version of the analytical engine's computing unit in 1888	Who was Charles Babbage's son?
The first modern analog computer was a tide-predicting machine, invented by Sir William Thomson in 1872	Who invented the first analog computer in the form of a tide-predicting machine?
Hazen and Vannevar Bush at MIT starting in 1927	Where was the differential analyzer built by H.L. Hazen?
By the 1950s the success of digital electronic computers had spelled the end for most analog computing machines, but analog computers remain in use in some specialized applications such as education and aircraft 	By what decade were analog computing devices rendered obsolete?
The principle of the modern computer was first described by mathematician and pioneering computer scientist Alan Turing, who set out the idea in his seminal 1936 paper, On Computable Numbers	"Who wrote the paper ""On Computable Numbers""?"
He also introduced the notion of a 'Universal Machine' , with the idea that such a machine could perform the tasks of any other machine, or in other words, it is provably capable of computing anything that is computable by executing a program stored on tape, allowing the machine to be programmable	A Universal Machine is known as what today?
By 1938 the United States Navy had developed an electromechanical analog computer small enough to use aboard a submarine	What part of the US military developed an electromechanical analog computer to use on a submarine?
The Z2, created by German engineer Konrad Zuse in 1939, was one of the earliest examples of an electromechanical relay computer	Who created the relay computer, the Z2?
In 1941, Zuse followed his earlier machine up with the Z3, the world's first working electromechanical programmable, fully automatic digital computer	When did Konrad Zuse create the Z3 computer?
The engineer Tommy Flowers, working at the Post Office Research Station in London in the 1930s, began to explore the possible use of electronics for the telephone exchange	Where did the engineer Tommy Flowers work at during the 1930s?
To crack the more sophisticated German Lorenz SZ 40/42 machine, used for high-level Army communications, Max Newman and his colleagues commissioned Flowers to build the Colossus	Who built the first Colossus in 1943?
Colossus was the world's first electronic digital programmable computer	What was the first electronic digital programmable computer in the world?
The US-built ENIAC was the first electronic programmable computer built in the US	The US-buils ENIAC stands for what?
It could add or subtract 5000 times a second, a thousand times faster than any other machine	How many times could it add or subtract a second?
The theoretical basis for the stored-program computer was laid by Alan Turing in his 1936 paper	The basis for the stored-program computer was written by whom?
The Manchester Small-Scale Experimental Machine, nicknamed Baby, was the world's first stored-program computer	What was the nickname of the Manchester Small-Scale Experimental Machine?
The Mark 1 in turn quickly became the prototype for the Ferranti Mark 1, the world's first commercially available general-purpose computer	What was the prototype for the Ferranti Mark 1?
"From 1955 onwards transistors replaced vacuum tubes in computer designs, giving rise to the ""second generation"" of computers"	When did transistors start replacing vacuum tubes in computers?
At the University of Manchester, a team under the leadership of Tom Kilburn designed and built a machine using the newly developed transistors instead of valves	At the University of Manchester, who oversaw the building of a computer using transistors instead of valves?
The idea of the integrated circuit was first conceived by a radar scientist working for the Royal Radar Establishment of the Ministry of Defence, Geoffrey W	Where did Geoffrey W.A. Dummer work at?
The first practical ICs were invented by Jack Kilby at Texas Instruments and Robert Noyce at Fairchild Semiconductor	Where did Jack Kilby work at when he created the first IC?
"While the subject of exactly which device was the first microprocessor is contentious, partly due to lack of agreement on the exact definition of the term ""microprocessor"", it is largely undisputed that the first single-chip microprocessor was the Intel 4004, designed and realized by Ted Hoff, Federico Faggin, and Stanley Mazor at Intel"	What was the name of the first single-chip microprocessor?
These so-called smartphones and tablets run on a variety of operating systems and have become the dominant computing device on the market, with manufacturers reporting having shipped an estimated 237 million devices in 2Q 2013	Computing resources that are created in cell phones are called what?
In practical terms, a computer program may be just a few instructions or extend to many millions of instructions, as do the programs for word processors and web browsers for example	Billions of instructions per second are called what in computer terms?
This is called the flow of control within the program and it is what allows the computer to perform tasks repeatedly without human intervention	When a computer goes back and repeats instructions of a program over until an internal condition is met is called what?
This is called the Harvard architecture after the Harvard Mark I computer	Which computer is the Harvard architecture modeled after?
Instead, each basic instruction can be given a short name that is indicative of its function and easy to remember – a mnemonic such as ADD, SUB, MULT or JUMP	A computer's assembly language is known as what?
They are generally either translated into machine code by a compiler or an assembler before being run, or translated directly at run time by an interpreter	Programming languages are translated into machine code by what?
For instance, an ARM architecture computer cannot understand the machine language of an Intel Pentium or the AMD Athlon 64 computer that might be in a PC	An ARM architecture computer can be found in what?
"High level languages are usually ""compiled"" into machine language using another computer program called a compiler"	Assembly language that is translated into machine language is done by what type of computer?
Example of 4GL is SQL	An example of a 4GL is what?
"Errors in computer programs are called ""bugs"""	Another name for errors in programs are called what?
"Admiral Grace Hopper, an American computer scientist and developer of the first compiler, is credited for having first used the term ""bugs"" in computing after a dead moth was found shorting a relay in the Harvard Mark II computer in September 1947"	Who was the developer of the first compier?
A general purpose computer has four main components: the arithmetic logic unit , the control unit, the memory, and the input and output devices 	The ALU of a computer stands for what?
Inside each of these parts are thousands to trillions of small electrical circuits which can be turned off or on by means of an electronic switch	"In positive logic representation a ""1"" represents when a circuit is what?"
The control unit manages the computer's various components; it reads and interprets the program instructions, transforming them into control signals that activate other parts of the computer	What are other names for a control unit for a computer?
A key component common to all CPUs is the program counter, a special memory cell that keeps track of which location in memory the next instruction is to be read from	A special memory cell of a CPU is called what?
Since the program counter is just another set of memory cells, it can be changed by calculations done in the ALU	In what part can the program counter be changed by calculations?
The sequence of operations that the control unit goes through to process an instruction is in itself like a short computer program, and indeed, in some more complex CPU designs, there is another yet smaller computer called a microsequencer, which runs a microcode program that causes all of these events to happen	In some CPU designs there is tinier computer called what?
The control unit, ALU, and registers are collectively known as a central processing unit 	The CPU is an abbreviation for what?
The set of arithmetic operations that a particular ALU supports may be limited to addition and subtraction, or might include multiplication, division, trigonometry functions such as sine, cosine, etc	Some trigonometry functions are what?
Logic operations involve Boolean logic: AND, OR, XOR, and NOT	Boolean logic consists of what?
Superscalar computers may contain multiple ALUs, allowing them to process several instructions simultaneously	Computers that have multiple ALUs are called what?
"Each cell has a numbered ""address"" and can store a single number"	How many numbers can a cell of a computer's memory hold?
In almost all modern computers, each memory cell is set up to store binary numbers in groups of eight bits 	A group of 8 bits is called what?
The CPU contains a special set of memory cells called registers that can be read and written to much more rapidly than the main memory area	What part of the computer has memory cells called registers?
RAM can be read and written to anytime the CPU commands it, but ROM is preloaded with data and software that never changes, therefore the CPU can only read from it	What type of memory can a CPU only read from?
In more sophisticated computers there may be one or more RAM cache memories, which are slower than registers but faster than main memory	RAM cache memory is slower than what?
Devices that provide input or output to the computer are called peripherals	Devices that give input or output to a computer are called what?
This is achieved by multitasking i	In computer terms, when a computer is switching rapidly between running each program in turn, is called what?
"This method of multitasking is sometimes termed ""time-sharing"" since each program is allocated a ""slice"" of time in turn"	"A method of multitasking that takes a ""slice"" of time in turn is called what?"
Seemingly, multitasking would cause a computer that is switching between several programs to run more slowly, in direct proportion to the number of programs it is running, but most programs spend much of their time waiting for slow input/output devices to complete their tasks	Multitasking would seemingly cause a computer to run in what fashion?
Some computers are designed to distribute their work across several CPUs in a multiprocessing configuration, a technique once employed only in large and powerful machines such as supercomputers, mainframe computers and servers	Multiprocessor and multi-core computers have multiples of what?
They often feature thousands of CPUs, customized high-speed interconnects, and specialized computing hardware	How many CPUs do supercomputers typically possess?
military's SAGE system was the first large-scale example of such a system, which led to a number of special-purpose commercial systems such as Sabre	What system of the U.S. military's was the first large-scale system to coordinate information between several locations?
The effort was funded by ARPA , and the computer network that resulted was called the ARPANET	ARPA is now known as what?
The ability to store and execute lists of instructions called programs makes computers extremely versatile, distinguishing them from calculators	The ability to store and execute lists of instructions are called what?
"While popular usage of the word ""computer"" is synonymous with a personal electronic computer, the modern definition of a computer is literally: ""A device that computes, especially a programmable electronic machine that performs high-speed mathematical or logical operations or that assembles, stores, correlates, or otherwise processes information"	All devices that can process information can qualify being called what?
Historically, computers evolved from mechanical computers and eventually from vacuum tubes to transistors	Vacuum tubes in early computers were replaced by what?
There is active research to make computers out of many promising new types of technology, such as optical computers, DNA computers, neural computers, and quantum computers	What type of computer can break encryption algorithms quickly?
Computer programs that learn and adapt are part of the emerging field of artificial intelligence and machine learning	Computer programs that can learn are studied in what field?
The term hardware covers all of those parts of a computer that are tangible objects	Parts of a computer that are real objects are collectively known as what?
Software refers to parts of the computer which do not have a material form, such as programs, data, protocols, etc	Parts of a computer that are not material objects are collectively known as what?
This chip is located on the motherboard and has the BIOS set up stored in it	A BIOS chip is located where in a computer?
The act of processing is mainly regulated by the CPU	Processing data from input and output devices is typically done by what?
"For many other individuals, communities and countries, ""black"" is also perceived as a derogatory, outdated, reductive or otherwise unrepresentative label, and as a result is neither used nor defined"	"Do some countries have negative feelings towards the word ""black""?"
"Different societies apply differing criteria regarding who is classified as ""black"", and these social constructs have also changed over time"	"Do all societies use the term ""black"" the same?"
The Romans interacted with and later conquered parts of Mauretania, an early state that covered modern Morocco, western Algeria, and the Spanish cities Ceuta and Melilla during the classical period	What made up Mauretania?
Numerous communities of dark-skinned peoples are present in North Africa, some dating from prehistoric communities	Where was the Arab Slave Trade?
"In the 18th century, the Moroccan Sultan Moulay Ismail ""the Bloodthirsty"" raised a corps of 150,000 black slaves, called his Black Guard, who coerced the country into submission"	When did Moroccan Sultan Moulay Ismail live?
Carlos Moore, resident scholar at Brazil's University of the State of Bahia, in the 21st century Afro-multiracials in the Arab world, including Arabs in North Africa, self-identify in ways that resemble multi-racials in Latin America	Where does Dr. Carlos Moore work?
Egyptian President Anwar Sadat had a mother who was a dark-skinned Nubian Sudanese woman and a father who was a lighter-skinned Egyptian	Who was the Egyptian President?
Due to the patriarchal nature of Arab society, Arab men, including during the slave trade in North Africa, enslaved more black women than men	Who was enslaved more often?
Some succeeded their fathers as rulers, such as Sultan Ahmad al-Mansur, who ruled Morocco from 1578 to 1608	Who was the ruler in Morocco?
 	What Arabic term is still used for black people?
In early 1991, non-Arabs of the Zaghawa tribe of Sudan attested that they were victims of an intensifying Arab apartheid campaign, segregating Arabs and non-Arabs 	When did the Arab apartheid intensify? 
American University economist George Ayittey accused the Arab government of Sudan of practicing acts of racism against black citizens	Who accused the Arab government of practicing acts of racism?
""" Former Canadian Minister of Justice Irwin Cotler echoed the accusation"	Who was the Canadian Minister of Justice?
In South Africa, the period of colonization resulted in many unions and marriages between European men and African women from various tribes, resulting in mixed-race children	What did the colonization of South Africa result in?
The apartheid bureaucracy devised complex criteria in the Population Registration Act of 1945 to determine who belonged in which group	What act determined what class a citizen belonged to?
Sandra Laing is a South African woman who was classified as Coloured by authorities during the apartheid era, due to her skin colour and hair texture, although her parents could prove at least three generations of European ancestors	"Who was featured in the movie ""Skin""?"
"During the apartheid era, those classed as ""Coloured"" were oppressed and discriminated against"	Who was oppressed and discriminated against?
"In the post-apartheid era, the Constitution of South Africa has declared the country to be a ""Non-racial democracy"""	What did South Africa's Constitution Declare to be?
"In 2008, the High Court in South Africa ruled that Chinese South Africans who were residents during the apartheid era are to be reclassified as ""Black people,"" solely for the purposes of accessing affirmative action benefits, because they were also ""disadvantaged"" by racial discrimination"	"Who declared Chinese South Africans as ""Black People""?"
"Other than by appearance, ""Coloureds"" can usually be distinguished from ""Blacks"" by language"	"What is another way ""Coloureds"" can be distinguished from ""Blacks""?"
Historians estimate that between the advent of Islam in 650CE and the abolition of slavery in the Arabian Peninsula in the mid-20th century, 10 to 18 million sub-Saharan Black Africans were enslaved by Arab slave traders and transported to the Arabian Peninsula and neighboring countries	How many sub-Saharan Black Africans were enslaved?
Genetic studies have found significant African female-mediated gene flow in Arab communities in the Arabian Peninsula and neighboring countries, with an average of 38% of maternal lineages in Yemen are of direct African descent, 16% in Oman-Qatar, and 10% in Saudi Arabia-United Arab Emirates	How many people in Yemen have African lineage? 
African-Iraquis have sought minority status from the government, which would reserve some seats in Parliament for representatives of their population	Who is seeking minority status from the government?
About 150,000 East African and black people live in Israel, amounting to just over 2% of the nation's population	How many East African and black people live in Israel?
Additionally, there are around 60,000 non-Jewish African immigrants in Israel, some of whom have sought asylum	How many non-jewish African immigrants live in Israel?
Beginning several centuries ago, during the period of the Ottoman Empire, tens of thousands of Black Africans were brought by slave traders to plantations and agricultural areas situated between Antalya and Istanbul in present-day Turkey	When did the slave trade begin?
The Siddi are an ethnic group inhabiting India and Pakistan whose members are descended from Bantu peoples from Southeast Africa that were brought to the Indian subcontinent as slaves by Arab and Portuguese merchants	Who are the Siddi?
The Negritos are believed to be the first inhabitants of Southeast Asia	Who were the first inhabitants of Southeast Asia?
"The term ""Moors"" has been used in Europe in a broader, somewhat derogatory sense to refer to Muslims, especially those of Arab or Berber descent, whether living in North Africa or Iberia"	"What does the term ""Moors"" refer to?"
Isidore of Seville, writing in the 7th century, claimed that the Latin word Maurus was derived from the Greek mauron, μαύρον, which is the Greek word for black	Who claimed that Maurus was derived from the Greek mauron?
Afro-Spaniards are Spanish nationals of West/Central African descent	What are Afro-Spaniards?
"According to the Office for National Statistics, at the 2001 census there were over a million black people in the United Kingdom; 1% of the total population described themselves as ""Black Caribbean"", 0"	In 2001 how many black people lived in the UK?
As African states became independent in the 1960s, the Soviet Union offered many of their citizens the chance to study in Russia	When did African states become independent?
Due to the Ottoman slave trade that had flourished in the Balkans, the coastal town of Ulcinj in Montenegro had its own black community	Where did the Ottoman slave trade flourish?
"Indigenous Australians have been referred to as ""black people"" in Australia since the early days of European settlement"	"Who has been referred to as ""black people""?"
Various state-based Aboriginal Protection Boards were established which had virtually complete control over the lives of Indigenous Australians – where they lived, their employment, marriage, education and included the power to separate children from their parents	What was established to control the Indigenous Australians?
"After the First World War, however, it became apparent that the number of mixed-race people was growing at a faster rate than the white population, and by 1930 fear of the ""half-caste menace"" undermining the White Australia ideal from within was being taken as a serious concern"	Which race was growing faster after the First World War?
"This led to different treatment for ""black"" and ""half-caste"" individuals, with lighter-skinned individuals targeted for removal from their families to be raised as ""white"" people, restricted from speaking their native language and practising traditional customs, a process now known as the Stolen Generation"	Who did the government want raised as white?
The second half of the 20th century to the present has seen a gradual shift towards improved human rights for Aboriginal people	When did human rights for Aboriginal people begin to improve?
In 1978 Aboriginal writer Kevin Gilbert received the National Book Council award for his book Living Black: Blacks Talk to Kevin Gilbert, a collection of Aboriginal people's stories, and in 1998 was awarded the Human Rights Award for Literature for Inside Black Australia, a poetry anthology and exhibition of Aboriginal photography	"Who wrote ""Living Black?"
This nationwide acceptance and recognition of Aboriginal people led to a significant increase in the number of people self-identifying as Aboriginal or Torres Strait Islander	What did the improvements in quality of life increase?
In the Colonial America of 1619, John Rolfe used negars in describing the slaves who were captured from West Africa and then shipped to the Virginia colony	Who described slaves as negars?
By the 1900s, nigger had become a pejorative word in the United States	"When did ""nigger"" become a pejorative word?"
In the first 200 years that black people were in the United States, they primarily identified themselves by their specific ethnic group and not by skin color	How did black people identify in early America?
"The US racial or ethnic classification ""black"" refers to people with all possible kinds of skin pigmentation, from the darkest through to the very lightest skin colors, including albinos, if they are believed by others to have West African ancestry , or to exhibit cultural traits associated with being ""African American"""	"What type of skin pigment does ""Black"" refer to?"
"By that time, the majority of black people in the United States were native-born, so the use of the term ""African"" became problematic"	"Why did the use of ""African"" become an issue?"
"In 1988, the civil rights leader Jesse Jackson urged Americans to use instead the term ""African American"" because it had a historical cultural base and was a construction similar to terms used by European descendants, such as German American, Italian American, etc"	"Who argued for Americans to use the term ""African American""?"
The Census Bureau notes that these classifications are socio-political constructs and should not be interpreted as scientific or anthropological	What classification are given?
From the late 19th century, the South used a colloquial term, the one-drop rule, to classify as black a person of any known African ancestry	"What did the ""one-drop"" rule do?"
To a certain extent, this concept is not so much about race but more about political orientation, culture and behavior	"What defines ""blackness""?"
"Toni Morrison once described Bill Clinton as the first black President of the United States, because, as she put it, he displayed ""almost every trope of blackness"""	"Who described Bill Clinton as ""Black""?"
com reported on historic and DNA research by its staff that discovered that Obama is likely a descendant through his mother of John Punch, considered by some historians to be the first African slave in the Virginia colony	Who is Obama possibly an ancestor of?
Approximately 12 million Africans were shipped to the Americas during the Atlantic slave trade from 1492 to 1888, with 11	How many Africans were shipped to the US between 1492 to 1888?
In Brazil, people are classified by appearance, not heredity	How are people in Brazil classified?
It is generally believed that achieving upward mobility and education results in individuals being classified as a category of lighter skin	What type of skin color has a better chance of a good life in Brazil?
I	What does Preto mean?
Scholars estimate that more than half of the Brazilian population is at least in part descended from these individuals	How much of the Brazilian population are descendants of slavery?
2% of the population identified as black, 40% as pardo, and 55% as white	How much identified as mixed race?
Because of the acceptance of miscegenation, Brazil has avoided the binary polarization of society into black and white	What has Brazil avoided?
In the US, African Americans, who include multiracial people, earn 75% of what white people earn	In the US, how much of what white people earn, do blacks earn?
Though Brazilians of at least partial African heritage make up a large percentage of the population, few blacks have been elected as politicians	What race has a very low rate of holding public office in Brazil?
Critics note that people of color have limited media visibility	What do critics claim people of color have?
"These patterns of discrimination against non-whites have led some academic and other activists to advocate for use of the Portuguese term negro to encompass all African-descended people, in order to stimulate a ""black"" consciousness and identity"	"What would scholars like the term ""Negro"" to include?"
The Times is a British daily national newspaper based in London	The Times is based in what major British city?
The Times is the first newspaper to have borne that name, lending it to numerous other papers around the world, including The Times of India , The Straits Times , The New York Times , The Irish Times , Le Temps , the Cape Times , the Los Angeles Times , The Seattle Times , The Manila Times , The Daily Times , El Tiempo , The Canberra Times , and The Times 	What year did The Times of India start?
The Times is the originator of the widely used Times Roman typeface, originally developed by Stanley Morison of The Times in collaboration with the Monotype Corporation for its legibility in low-tech printing	What major typeface font was started by The Times?
Though traditionally a moderate newspaper and sometimes a supporter of the Conservative Party, it supported the Labour Party in the 2001 and 2005 general elections	Traditionally, what political spectrum did The Times support?
The Times was founded by publisher John Walter on 1 January 1785 as The Daily Universal Register, with Walter in the role of editor	The Times was founded by what publisher who also was the editor?
In 1815, The Times had a circulation of 5,000	In 1815, The Times had a circulation of how many people?
Thomas Barnes was appointed general editor in 1817	Who was appointed general editor for The Times in 1817?
The Times was the first newspaper to send war correspondents to cover particular conflicts	The Times was the first newspaper to send correspondents to what kind of event?
In other events of the nineteenth century, The Times opposed the repeal of the Corn Laws until the number of demonstrations convinced the editorial board otherwise, and only reluctantly supported aid to victims of the Irish Potato Famine	What major event did The Times reluctantly support in the nineteenth century despite being initially opposed?
The third John Walter, the founder's grandson, succeeded his father in 1847	What year did the founder's grandson succeed his father as editor of The Times?
During the 19th century, it was not infrequent for the Foreign Office to approach The Times and ask for continental intelligence, which was often superior to that conveyed by official sources	Which agency often used The Times for continental intelligence?
The Times faced financial extinction in 1890 under Arthur Fraser Walter, but it was rescued by an energetic editor, Charles Frederic Moberly Bell	Which editor nearly ruined The Times in 1890?
In editorials published on 29 and 31 July 1914, Wickham Steed, the Times's Chief Editor, argued that the British Empire should enter World War I	Who was The Times' Chief Editor in 1914?
The following year, when Philip Graves, the Constantinople correspondent of The Times, exposed The Protocols as a forgery, The Times retracted the editorial of the previous year	A Constantinople correspondent of The Times exposed what anti-Semitic document as a forgery?
In 1922, John Jacob Astor, son of the 1st Viscount Astor, bought The Times from the Northcliffe estate	In 1922, who bought The Times?
Kim Philby, a Soviet double agent, was a correspondent for the newspaper in Spain during the Spanish Civil War of the late 1930s	Who was the name of the Soviet double agent who was the correspondent for The Times in Spain in the late 1930s?
Carr was well known for the strongly pro-Soviet tone of his editorials	The Assistant Editor of The Times in 1941-1946 strongly supported what stance?
On 3 May 1966 it resumed printing news on the front page - previously the front page featured small advertisements, usually of interest to the moneyed classes in British society	In what year did The Times resume printing news on the front page instead of small advertisements?
The Thomson Corporation management were struggling to run the business due to the 1979 Energy Crisis and union demands	In 1979, which corporation was struggling to run The Times?
Several suitors appeared, including Robert Maxwell, Tiny Rowland and Lord Rothermere; however, only one buyer was in a position to meet the full Thomson remit, Australian media magnate Rupert Murdoch	A media magnate from which country bought The Times in the 1980s?
In 1981, The Times and The Sunday Times were bought from Thomson by Rupert Murdoch's News International	What corporation bought The Times in 1981?
After 14 years as editor, William Rees-Mogg resigned the post upon completion of the change of ownership	When The Times was bought in 1982, who resigned as editor?
"Robert Fisk, seven times British International Journalist of the Year, resigned as foreign correspondent in 1988 over what he saw as ""political censorship"" of his article on the shooting-down of Iran Air Flight 655 in July 1988"	Which major journalist resigned as foreign correspondent of the Times in 1988?
In June 1990, The Times ceased its policy of using courtesy titles for living persons before full names on first reference, but it continues to use them before surnames on subsequent references	In what year did The Times ceased its policy of using courtesy titles for living persons before full names on first reference?
In November 2003, News International began producing the newspaper in both broadsheet and tabloid sizes	In what year did News International begin producing The Times in both broadsheet in tabloid sizes?
On 6 June 2005, The Times redesigned its Letters page, dropping the practice of printing correspondents' full postal addresses	On 6 June 2005, The Times redesigned what page of its newspaper?
In a 2007 meeting with the House of Lords Select Committee on Communications, which was investigating media ownership and the news, Murdoch stated that the law and the independent board prevented him from exercising editorial control	In what year was the meeting of the House of Lords Select Committee on Communications that was investigating media ownership and the news?
In May 2008 printing of The Times switched from Wapping to new plants at Broxbourne on the outskirts of London, and Merseyside and Glasgow, enabling the paper to be produced with full colour on every page for the first time	In May 2008, The Times switched from what plant to new plants in Broxbourne, Merseyside, and Glasgow?
"On 26 July 2012, to coincide with the official start of the London 2012 Olympics and the issuing of a series of souvenir front covers, The Times added the suffix ""of London"" to its masthead"	What major event took place in London in 2012?
The Times features news for the first half of the paper, the Opinion/Comment section begins after the first news section with world news normally following this	The Times features what in the first half of its newspaper?
The Times's main supplement, every day, is the times2, featuring various lifestyle columns	What is the name of the lifestyle column of The Times?
The Game is included in the newspaper on Mondays, and details all the weekend's football activity (Premier League and Football League Championship, League One and League Two	What sports activity is featured in The Times on Mondays?
These supplements were relaunched in January 2009 as: Sport, Weekend , Saturday Review , The Times Magazine , and Playlist 	What is the name of the section of the Saturday edition of The Times that features travel and lifestyle?
Notable contributors include Giles Coren, Food and Drink Writer of the Year in 2005 and Nadiya Hussain, winner of BBC's The Great British Bake Off	What is the name of the notable contributor to The Times Magazine columns that became the Food and Drink Writer of the Year in 2005?
The Times and The Sunday Times have had an online presence since March 1999, originally at the-times	Since what year has The Times and The Sunday Times had an online presense?
The Times Digital Archive is freely accessible via Gale databases to readers affiliated with subscribing academic, public, and school libraries	What is the name of the digital archive that holds The Times historical archive?
Visits to the websites have decreased by 87% since the paywall was introduced, from 21 million unique users per month to 2	Visits to The Times website have decreased by how much since October 2011?
At the time of Harold Evans' appointment as editor in 1981, The Times had an average daily sale of 282,000 copies in comparison to the 1	What year was Harold Evans appointed to editor of The Times?
The Sunday Times has a significantly higher circulation than The Times, and sometimes outsells The Sunday Telegraph	Which newspaper has a significantly higher circulation, The Sunday Times or The Times?
"In a 2009 national readership survey The Times was found to have the highest number of ABC1 25–44 readers and the largest numbers of readers in London of any of the ""quality"" papers"	In a 2009 national readership survey, what newspaper has the highest number of ABC1 25-44 readers?
The Times commissioned the serif typeface Times New Roman, created by Victor Lardent at the English branch of Monotype, in 1931	The Times commissioned what serif typeface in 1931?
"The Times adopted a stance described as ""peculiarly detached"" at the 1945 general election; although it was increasingly critical of the Conservative Party's campaign, it did not advocate a vote for any one party"	At the 1945 general election, The Times adopted a stance that was referred to by what name?
For the 2001 general election The Times declared its support for Tony Blair's Labour government, which was re-elected by a landslide	In the 2001 general election, The Times declared support for what political party?
Some columnists in The Times are connected to the Conservative Party such as Daniel Finkelstein, Tim Montgomerie, Matthew Parris and Matt Ridley, but there are also columnists connected to the Labour Party such as David Aaronovitch, Phil Collins, Oliver Kamm and Jenni Russell	What is the name of the newspaper with the most varied political support in British history?
In November 2012, it endorsed a second term for Barack Obama although it also expressed reservations about his foreign policy	In what year did The Times make an endorsement for Barack Obama?
"The Times, along with the British Film Institute, sponsors the ""The Times"" bfi London Film Festival"	What film festival does The Times support that is also supported alongside the British Film Institute?
The Times Literary Supplement first appeared in 1902 as a supplement to The Times, becoming a separately paid-for weekly literature and society magazine in 1914	What is the name of the supplement that first appeared in 1902 as a supplement to The Times?
Times Atlases have been produced since 1895	The Times began producing what kind of non-newspaper product in 1895?
The first issue of The Sunday Times Travel Magazine was in 2003, and it includes news, features and insider guides	What is the name of the travel magazine sold by The Times?
In the dystopian future world of George Orwell's Nineteen Eighty-Four, The Times has been transformed into the organ of the totalitarian ruling party, its editorials—of which several are quoted in the book—reflecting Big Brother's pronouncements	In what novel was The Times featured as an organ of a totalitarian ruling party?
Rex Stout's fictional detective Nero Wolfe is described as fond of solving the London Times' crossword puzzle at his New York home, in preference to those of American papers	The author, Rex Stout, created a fictional detection that is fond of solving London Times' crossword puzzles that goes by what name?
In the James Bond series by Ian Fleming, James Bond, reads The Times	The author, Ian Fleming, created a fictional character named James Bond who prefers to only read what newspaper?
In The Wombles, Uncle Bulgaria read The Times and asked for the other Wombles to bring him any copies that they found amongst the litter	In what children TV series is there is a fictional character named Uncle Bulgaria that asks others to bring him copies of The Times found amongst the litter?
New Delhi is a municipality and district in Delhi which serves as the capital and seat of government of India	In what territory is New Delhi located?
The foundation stone of the city was laid by George V, Emperor of India during the Delhi Durbar of 1911	In what year was the foundation stone of New Delhi laid?
Although colloquially Delhi and New Delhi as names are used interchangeably to refer to the jurisdiction of NCT of Delhi, these are two distinct entities, and the latter is a small part of the former	What are the two terms colloquially used to refer to the jurisdiction of NCT of Delhi?
New Delhi has been selected as one of the hundred Indian cities to be developed as a smart city under PM Narendra Modi's flagship Smart Cities Mission	How many Indian cities have been selected to be developed as a smart city?
Calcutta was the capital of India during the British Raj until December 1911	What city was the capital of India until December 1911?
On 12 December 1911, during the Delhi Durbar, George V, then Emperor of India, along with Queen Mary, his Consort, made the announcement that the capital of the Raj was to be shifted from Calcutta to Delhi, while laying the foundation stone for the Viceroy's residence in the Coronation Park, Kingsway Camp	Who announced that the capital of India would be moved from Calcutta to Delhi?
However, it was rejected by the Viceroy when the cost of acquiring the necessary properties was found to be too high	Who rejected the proposals of Brodie and Lutyens?
As construction of the Viceroy's House , Central Secretariat, Parliament House, and All-India War Memorial was winding down, the building of a shopping district and a new plaza, Connaught Place, began in 1929, and was completed by 1933	The construction of Connaught Place was completed in what year?
After the capital of India moved to Delhi, a temporary secretariat building was constructed in a few months in 1912 in North Delhi	A temporary secretariat building was built in New Delhi in what year?
After India gained independence in 1947, a limited autonomy was conferred to New Delhi and was administered by a Chief Commissioner appointed by the Government of India	In what year did India gain independence?
The first major extension of New Delhi outside of Lutyens' Delhi came in the 1950s when the Central Public Works Department developed a large area of land southwest of Lutyens' Delhi to create the diplomatic enclave of Chanakyapuri, where land was allotted for embassies, chanceries, high commissions and residences of ambassadors, around wide central vista, Shanti Path	In what decade did New Delhi first extend significantly from Lutyen's Delhi?
Because the city is located on the Indo-Gangetic Plain, there is little difference in elevation across the city	On what plain is New Delhi located?
7-magnitude earthquake on 25 November 2007, a 4	A 4.7 magnitude earthquake that affected New Delhi occurred on what date?
The climate of New Delhi is a monsoon-influenced humid subtropical climate with high variation between summer and winter in terms of both temperature and rainfall	In what type of climate is New Delhi located?
In recent Mercer’s 2015 annual quality-of-living survey, New Delhi ranks at number 154 out of 230 cities due to bad air quality and pollution	What is New Delhi's rank in Mercer's 2015 quality of living survey?
In an attempt to curb air pollution in New Delhi, which gets worst during the winter, a temporary alternate-day travel scheme for cars using the odd- and even-numbered license plates system was announced by Delhi government in December 2015	In what season does New Delhi's air pollution worsen?
On December 16, 2015, the Supreme Court of India mandated several restrictions on Delhi's transportation system to curb pollution	On what date did the Supreme Court of India enact restrictions on Delhi's transportation system to reduce pollution?
The national capital of India, New Delhi is jointly administered by both the Central Government of India and the local Government of Delhi, it is also the capital of the National Capital Territory of Delhi	New Delhi is the capital of what National Capital Territory?
As of 2015, the government structure of the New Delhi Municipal Council includes a chairperson, three members of New Delhi's Legislative Assembly, two members nominated by the Chief Minister of the NCT of Delhi and five members nominated by the central government	The government structure of the New Delhi Municipal Council includes three members from what government body?
The head of state of Delhi is the Lieutenant Governor of the Union Territory of Delhi, appointed by the President of India on the advice of the Central government and the post is largely ceremonial, as the Chief Minister of the Union Territory of Delhi is the head of government and is vested with most of the executive powers	What is the official title of Delhi's head of state?
New Delhi is governed through a municipal government, known as the New Delhi Municipal Council 	What is the name of the municipal government by which New Delhi is governed?
Much of New Delhi, planned by the leading 20th-century British architect Edwin Lutyens, was laid out to be the central administrative area of the city as a testament to Britain's imperial pretensions	What British architect was responsible for designing much of New Delhi?
At the heart of the city is the magnificent Rashtrapati Bhavan which sits atop Raisina Hill	Formerly known as the Viceroy's House, which large building is located at the heart of New Delhi?
Indira Gandhi International Airport, situated to the southwest of Delhi, is the main gateway for the city's domestic and international civilian air traffic	What major airport is located to the southwest of Delhi?
The Delhi Flying Club, established in 1928 with two de Havilland Moth aircraft named Delhi and Roshanara, was based at Safdarjung Airport which started operations in 1929, when it was the Delhi's only airport and the second in India	The Delhi Flying Club was established in what year?
In 2010, Indira Gandhi International Airport was conferred the fourth best airport award in the world in the 15–25 million category, and Best Improved Airport in the Asia-Pacific Region by Airports Council International	In what year did Indira Gandhi International Airport earn an award for being forth best airport in the world in the 15-25 million category?
Buses are operated by the state-owned Delhi Transport Corporation , which owns largest fleet of compressed natural gas -fueled buses in the world	What state-owned organization operates New Delhi's bus transport system?
New Delhi is a major junction in the Indian railway network and is the headquarters of the Northern Railway	What Indian city is the headquarters of the Northern Railway?
The Delhi Metro is a rapid transit system serving New Delhi, Delhi, Gurgaon, Faridabad, Noida, and Ghaziabad in the National Capital Region of India	What is the name of the world's 12 largest metro system by length?
Delhi Metro is being built and operated by the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation Limited , a state-owned company with equal equity participation from Government of India and Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi	What organization operates the Delhi Metro system?
New Delhi has a population of 249,998	What is the population of New Delhi?
Hinduism is the religion of 79	What is the most commonly practiced religion in New Delhi?
National events such as Republic Day, Independence Day and Gandhi Jayanti are celebrated with great enthusiasm in New Delhi and the rest of India	What is the name of the holiday celebrated in India that occurs on Gandhi's Birthday?
Religious festivals include Diwali , Maha Shivaratri, Teej, Guru Nanak Jayanti, Baisakhi, Durga Puja, Holi, Lohri, Eid ul-Fitr, Eid ul-Adha, Christmas, Chhath Puja and Mahavir Jayanti	What religious festival is also known as the festival of light?
In 2007, the Japanese Buddhist organisation Nipponzan Myohoji decided to build a Peace Pagoda in the city containing Buddha relics	The Nipponzan Myohoji decided to build a Peace Pagoda in new Delhi in what year?
The New Delhi town plan, like its architecture, was chosen with one single chief consideration: to be a symbol of British power and supremacy	The New Delhi town plan was chosen primarily to symbolize what?
It took about 20 years to build the city from 1911	Approximately how long did it take to build New Delhi?
On 15 August 1949, the National Museum was formally inaugurated and currently has 200,000 works of art, both of Indian and foreign origin, covering over 5,000 years	On what date was the National Museum formally inaugurated?
The India Gate built in 1931 was inspired by the Arc de Triomphe in Paris	What year was the India Gate built?
The Rajpath which was built similar to the Champs-Élysées in Paris is the ceremonial boulevard for the Republic of India located in New Delhi	The Rajpath was constructed similarly to what famous Parisian street?
Gandhi Smriti in New Delhi is the location where Mahatma Gandhi spent the last 144 days of his life and was assassinated on 30 January 1948	In which location did Mahatma Gandhi spend the final 144 days of his life?
Jantar Mantar located in Connaught Place was built by Maharaja Jai Singh II of Jaipur	Who was responsible for constructing the Jantar Mantar?
New Delhi is home to Indira Gandhi Memorial Museum, National Gallery of Modern Art, National Museum of Natural History, National Rail Museum, National Handicrafts and Handlooms Museum, National Philatelic Museum, Nehru Planetarium, Shankar's International Dolls Museum	What is the name of the major railroad related museum located in New Delhi?
New Delhi is particularly renowned for its beautifully landscaped gardens that can look quite stunning in spring	The Buddha Jayanti Park is located in which Indian city?
The city hosted the 2010 Commonwealth Games and annually hosts Delhi Half Marathon foot-race	New Delhi played host to what major athletic competition in 2010?
Major sporting venues in New Delhi include the Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium, Ambedkar Stadium, Indira Gandhi Indoor Stadium, Feroz Shah Kotla Ground, R	What major sports venue in New Delhi bears the name of the former prime minister Indira Gandhi?
It has an estimated net State Domestic Product of ₹1595 billion in nominal terms and ~₹6800 billion in PPP terms	What was the estimated net State Domestic Product of New Delhi for 2010?
Connaught Place, one of North India's largest commercial and financial centres, is located in the northern part of New Delhi	What is the name of the large commercial and financial district located in the northern part of New Delhi?
The 2011 World Wealth Report ranks economic activity in New Delhi at 39, but overall the capital is ranked at 37, above cities like Jakarta and Johannesburg	According to the 2011 World Health Report, where does New Delhi rank in terms of economic activity?
The Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi does not release any economic figures specifically for New Delhi but publishes an official economic report on the whole of Delhi annually	What government body is responsible for releasing the annual official economic report for Delhi?
The gross state domestic product of Delhi at current prices for the year 2011-12 has been estimated at Rs 3	In which fiscal year was the GSDP of Delhi estimated at Rs 3.13 lakh crore?
The Asian and Pacific Centre for Transfer of Technology of the UNESCAP servicing the Asia-Pacific region is headquartered in New Delhi	In what city is the Asian and Pacific Centre for Transfer of Technology located?
It occurs mainly in the northern hemisphere, where birds are funnelled on to specific routes by natural barriers such as the Mediterranean Sea or the Caribbean Sea	Where does migration mainly occur?
Historically, migration has been recorded as much as 3,000 years ago by Ancient Greek authors including Homer and Aristotle, and in the Book of Job, for species such as storks, turtle doves, and swallows	When was migration first recorded?
The Arctic tern holds the long-distance migration record for birds, travelling between Arctic breeding grounds and the Antarctic each year	Which birds migrate the furthest?
The timing of migration seems to be controlled primarily by changes in day length	What causes the timing of migration?
Records of bird migration were made as much as 3,000 years ago by the Ancient Greek writers Hesiod, Homer, Herodotus and Aristotle	Who recorded early records of migration?
Aristotle noted that cranes traveled from the steppes of Scythia to marshes at the headwaters of the Nile	Who noted that cranes traveled from Scythia to the Nile?
Aristotle however suggested that swallows and other birds hibernated	Which bird did Aristotle believe hibernated?
It was not until the end of the eighteenth century that migration as an explanation for the winter disappearance of birds from northern climes was accepted	When was migration finally accepted?
Bewick then describes an experiment which succeeded in keeping swallows alive in Britain for several years, where they remained warm and dry through the winters	Who describes an experiment with swallows?
Bird movements include those made in response to changes in food availability, habitat, or weather	Why do birds migrate?
Many bird populations migrate long distances along a flyway	Along where do many birds migrate?
The primary motivation for migration appears to be food; for example, some hummingbirds choose not to migrate if fed through the winter	What is the primary motivation for migration?
Predation can be heightened during migration: Eleonora's falcon Falco eleonorae, which breeds on Mediterranean islands, has a very late breeding season, coordinated with the autumn passage of southbound passerine migrants, which it feeds to its young	What is hightened during migration?
"Within a species not all populations may be migratory; this is known as ""partial migration"""	What is partial migration?
Female chaffinches Fringilla coelebs in Eastern Fennoscandia migrate earlier in the autumn than males do	Which sex of the chaffinches Fringilla coelebs migrate earlier?
Most migrations begin with the birds starting off in a broad front	How do most migrations begin?
Many, if not most, birds migrate in flocks	How do most birds migrate?
Everest found skeletons of northern pintail Anas acuta and black-tailed godwit Limosa limosa at 5,000 m on the Khumbu Glacier	What part of birds was found on an expedition to Mt. Everest?
Most species of penguin migrate by swimming	How do penguins migrate?
For example, the pink-footed goose Anser brachyrhynchus migrates from Iceland to Britain and neighbouring countries, whilst the dark-eyed junco Junco hyemalis migrates from subarctic and arctic climates to the contiguous United States and the American goldfinch from taiga to wintering grounds extending from the American South northwestward to Western Oregon	Where do the pink-footed goose migrate?
Rather, it could follow an hooked or arched line, with detours around geographical barriers	What route does a migrating bird usually follow?
The same considerations about barriers and detours that apply to long-distance land-bird migration apply to water birds, but in reverse: a large area of land without bodies of water that offer feeding sites may also be a barrier to a bird that feeds in coastal waters	What do water birds avoid while migrating?
A similar situation occurs with waders 	What are waders called in North America?
For some species of waders, migration success depends on the availability of certain key food resources at stopover points along the migration route	What does successful migration depend on for some waders?
Some bar-tailed godwits Limosa lapponica have the longest known non-stop flight of any migrant, flying 11,000 km from Alaska to their New Zealand non-breeding areas	Which bird has the longest migration?
The Arctic tern Sterna paradisaea has the longest-distance migration of any bird, and sees more daylight than any other, moving from its Arctic breeding grounds to the Antarctic non-breeding areas	Which seabird has the longest-distance migration?
"The most pelagic species, mainly in the 'tubenose' order Procellariiformes, are great wanderers, and the albatrosses of the southern oceans may circle the globe as they ride the ""roaring forties"" outside the breeding season"	Which species are great wanderers?
Some large broad-winged birds rely on thermal columns of rising hot air to enable them to soar	What do some large broad-winged birds rely on to help them soar?
Many of the smaller insectivorous birds including the warblers, hummingbirds and flycatchers migrate large distances, usually at night	When do many insectivorous birds migrate?
Nocturnal migrants minimize predation, avoid overheating, and can feed during the day	What is a benefit of nocturnal migration?
Many long-distance migrants appear to be genetically programmed to respond to changing day length	What are many long distance migrants genetically programmed to do?
Short-distance passerine migrants have two evolutionary origins	How many evolutionary origins do short distance passerine migrants have?
Species that have no long-distance migratory relatives, such as the waxwings Bombycilla, are effectively moving in response to winter weather and the loss of their usual winter food, rather than enhanced breeding opportunities	What species has no long-distance migratory relatives?
In the tropics there is little variation in the length of day throughout the year, and it is always warm enough for a food supply, but altitudinal migration occurs in some tropical birds	Where is there little variation in the length of day throughout the year?
Sometimes circumstances such as a good breeding season followed by a food source failure the following year lead to irruptions in which large numbers of a species move far beyond the normal range	For what reason would birds mor far beyond the normal range?
Bird migration is primarily, but not entirely, a Northern Hemisphere phenomenon	In which hemisphere does bird migration primarily happen?
The control of migration, its timing and response are genetically controlled and appear to be a primitive trait that is present even in non-migratory species of birds	What controls a birds migration?
The primary physiological cue for migration are the changes in the day length	What is the primary cue for migration?
This is termed protandry	What is it called when males return earlier to the breeding sites than females?
Navigation is based on a variety of senses	What is navigation based on?
Long distance migrants are believed to disperse as young birds and form attachments to potential breeding sites and to favourite wintering sites	When do long distance migrants disperse?
Satellite tracking of day migrating raptors such as ospreys and honey buzzards has shown that older individuals are better at making corrections for wind drift	What are older migrating birds better at?
Migratory birds may use two electromagnetic tools to find their destinations: one that is entirely innate and another that relies on experience	What two electromagnetic tools do birds use to find their destinations?
"This can be due to flying past their destinations as in the ""spring overshoot"" in which birds returning to their breeding areas overshoot and end up further north than intended"	How can migrating birds lose their way?
Reverse migration, where the genetic programming of young birds fails to work properly, can lead to rarities turning up as vagrants thousands of kilometres out of range	What is it called when the genetic programing of young birds fail?
"A related phenomenon called ""abmigration"" involves birds from one region joining similar birds from a different breeding region in the common winter grounds and then migrating back along with the new population"	What is it called when birds from one region join birds from a different region?
It has been possible to teach a migration route to a flock of birds, for example in re-introduction schemes	What is a re-introduction scheme?
Birds need to alter their metabolism in order to meet the demands of migration	What do birds need to change to meet the demands of migration?
Migration in birds is highly labile and is believed to have developed independently in many avian lineages	How was migration developed?
Theoretical analyses show that detours that increase flight distance by up to 20% will often be adaptive on aerodynamic grounds - a bird that loads itself with food to cross a long barrier flies less efficiently	What percentage increase in flight distance will often be adaptive?
Large scale climatic changes, as have been experienced in the past, are expected to have an effect on the timing of migration	What is expected to have an effect on migration timing?
The migration of birds also aids the movement of other species, including those of ectoparasites such as ticks and lice, which in turn may carry micro-organisms including those of concern to human health	What other species does migration help?
Greater noctule bats feed on nocturnal migrating passerines	Who takes advantage of migrating birds?
Bird migration routes have been studied by a variety of techniques including the oldest, marking	What is the oldest way to study migration?
Orientation behaviour studies have been traditionally carried out using variants of a setup known as the Emlen funnel, which consists of a circular cage with the top covered by glass or wire-screen so that either the sky is visible or the setup is placed in a planetarium or with other controls on environmental cues	How are orientation behavior studies traditionally carried out?
Hunting along migration routes threatens some bird species	What threatens some bird species?
It is on Absecon Island, on the Atlantic coast	What is the name of the island on which Atlantic City is located?
In 1853, the first commercial hotel, The Belloe House, located at Massachusetts and Atlantic Avenue, was built	What is the name of the first commercial hotel built in Atlantic City?
Built on the edge of the bay, this served as the direct link of this remote parcel of land with Philadelphia, Pennsylvania	What other US city was linked to Atlantic City by the Camden and Atlantic Railroad train service?
The first boardwalk was built in 1870 along a portion of the beach in an effort to help hotel owners keep sand out of their lobbies	In what year was the first boardwalk built in Atlantic City?
The first road connecting the city to the mainland at Pleasantville was completed in 1870 and charged a 30-cent toll	The first road connected Atlantic City to which mainland town?
By 1878, because of the growing popularity of the city, one railroad line could no longer keep up with demand	By what year was demand so great that one railroad line could no longer keep up with the demand?
In the early part of the 20th century, Atlantic City went through a radical building boom	When did Atlantic City go through a radical building boom?
In 1903, Josiah White III bought a parcel of land near Ohio Avenue and the boardwalk and built the Queen Anne style Marlborough House	In what year did Josiah White III by land to build a hotel?
The Traymore Hotel was located at the corner of Illinois Avenue and the boardwalk	What was the name of the hotel located at the corner of Illinois Avenue and the boardwalk?
The Quaker-owned Chalfonte House, opened in 1868, and Haddon House, opened in 1869, flanked North Carolina Avenue at the beach end	What year did the Quaker-owned Chalfonte House open?
In 1883, salt water taffy was conceived in Atlantic City by David Bradley	In what year was salt water taffy conceived?
The 1920s, with tourism at its peak, are considered by many historians as Atlantic City's golden age	What years do many historians consider Atlantic City's golden age?
Bader, known for his contributions to the construction, athletics and aviation of Atlantic City	What three contributions to Atlantic City was Edward L. Bader known for?
From May 13 to May 16 in 1929, Johnson hosted a conference for organized crime figures from all across America	Who was a meeting organized for in 1929 in Atlantic City?
"The neighborhood known as the ""Inlet"" became particularly impoverished"	Which Atlantic City neighborhood became particularly impoverished in the mid-to-late 20th century?
The city hosted the 1964 Democratic National Convention which nominated Lyndon Johnson for President and Hubert Humphrey as Vice President	What event was hosted by Atlantic City in 1964?
By the late 1960s, many of the resort's once great hotels were suffering from embarrassing vacancy rates	By what years were many of the great hotels suffering from high vacancy rates?
In an effort at revitalizing the city, New Jersey voters in 1976 passed a referendum, approving casino gambling for Atlantic City; this came after a 1974 referendum on legalized gambling failed to pass	In what year did New Jersey voters pass a referendum approving casino gambling for Atlantic City?
With the redevelopment of Las Vegas and the opening of two casinos in Connecticut in the early 1990s, along with newly built casinos in the nearby Philadelphia metro area in the 2000s, Atlantic City's tourism began to decline due to its failure to diversify away from gaming	Atlantic City's tourism began to decline due to what failure?
Although Wynn's plans for development in the city were scrapped in 2002, the tunnel opened in 2001	In what year did the tunnel open?
One of these developers was Pinnacle Entertainment, who purchased the Sands Atlantic City, only to close it permanently November 11, 2006	When did the Sands Atlantic City close permanently?
In 2006, Morgan Stanley purchased 20 acres (8	In what year did Morgan Stanley purchase land for a new casino resort?
In the wake of the closures and declining revenue from casinos, Governor Christie said in September 2014 that the state would consider a 2015 referendum to end the 40-year-old monopoly that Atlantic City holds on casino gambling and allowing gambling in other municipalities	How long had Atlantic City held a monopoly on casino gambling?
"""Superstorm Sandy"" struck Atlantic City on October 29, 2012, causing flooding and power-outages but left minimal damage to any of the tourist areas including the Boardwalk and casino resorts, despite widespread belief that the city's boardwalk had been destroyed"	"When did ""Superstorm Sandy"" strike Atlantic City?"
According to the United States Census Bureau, the city had a total area of 17	What organization provided data detailing the size of the city?
Unincorporated communities, localities and place names located partially or completely within the city include Chelsea, City Island, Great Island and Venice Park	Besides Chelsea, City Island, and Great Island, what other community, locality, or place name is included in the city?
During this time, the city gets a sea breeze off the ocean that often makes daytime temperatures much cooler than inland areas, making Atlantic City a prime place for beating the summer heat from June through September	Atlantic City is a prime place to beat the heat from June through what month?
Annual precipitation is 40 inches which is fairly spread throughout the year	How many inches of precipitation does Atlantic City receive annually?
At the 2010 United States Census, there were 39,558 people, 15,504 households, and 8,558 families residing in the city	How many people were residing in Atlantic City during the 2010 United States Census?
There were 15,504 households, of which 27	How many households were there in Atlantic City during the 2010 United States Census?
The Census Bureau's 2006–2010 American Community Survey showed that median household income was $30,237 and the median family income was $35,488 	How much was the median household income according to the American Community Survey?
As of the 2000 United States Census there were 40,517 people, 15,848 households, and 8,700 families residing in the city	According to the 2000 United States Census, how many people were living in Atlantic City?
There were 15,848 households out of which 27	How many households were there in Atlantic City?
The median age was 35 years	What was the median age of Atlantic City?
The median income for a household in the city was $26,969, and the median income for a family was $31,997	What was the median income for a household in the city?
As of September 2014, the greater Atlantic City area has one of the highest unemployment rates in the country at 13	As of September 2014, the greater Atlantic City area had one of the highest rates in the country of what?
"In July 2010, Governor Chris Christie announced that a state takeover of the city and local government ""was imminent"""	In 2010, who stated that a state takeover of the city and local government of Atlantic City was imminent?
On April 29, 2011, the boundaries for the state-run tourism district were set	What year were the boundaries for the state-run tourism district finally set?
Also included are 10 roadways that lead into the district, including several in the city's northern end, or North Beach	How many roadways will be included in the district?
"Atlantic City is considered as the ""Gambling Capital of the East Coast,"" and currently has eight large casinos and several smaller ones"	What is Atlantic City known for?
In the wake of the United States' economic downturn and the legalization of gambling in adjacent and nearby states , four casino closures took place in 2014: the Atlantic Club on January 13; the Showboat on August 31; the Revel, which was Atlantic City's second-newest casino, on September 2; and Trump Plaza, which originally opened in 1984, and was the poorest performing casino in the city, on September 16	How many casino closures took place in Atlantic City in 2014?
Executives at Trump Entertainment Resorts, whose sole remaining property will be the Trump Taj Mahal, said in 2013 that they were considering the option of selling the Taj and winding down and exiting the gaming and hotel business	What is the sole remaining property owned by Trump Entertainment Group?
Caesars Entertainment executives have been reconsidering the future of their three remaining Atlantic City properties , in the wake of a Chapter 11 bankruptcy filing by the company's casino operating unit in January 2015	How many remaining properties belong to Caesars Entertainment?
"Boardwalk Hall, formally known as the ""Historic Atlantic City Convention Hall"", is an arena in Atlantic City along the boardwalk"	What was Boardwalk Hall formerly known as?
Atlantic City has become well-known over the years for its portrayal in the U	What is Atlantic City sometimes referred to?
"Marvin Gardens, the leading yellow property on the board shown, is actually a misspelling of the original location name, ""Marven Gardens"""	What popular property in Monopoly was actually a misspelling?
Immunology is a branch of biomedical science that covers the study of immune systems in all organisms	In general, what does immunology study?
"Prior to the designation of immunity from the etymological root immunis, which is Latin for ""exempt""; early physicians characterized organs that would later be proven as essential components of the immune system"	The term immunology is derived from a Latin word that means what?
Many components of the immune system are typically cellular in nature and not associated with any specific organ; but rather are embedded or circulating in various tissues located throughout the body	The structure of immune system components can be described as what?
Classical immunology ties in with the fields of epidemiology and medicine	Which two fields of study are associated with immunology?
The immune system has been divided into a more primitive innate immune system and, in vertebrates, an acquired or adaptive immune system	What is the basic, primitive part of the immune system known as?
The humoral response is defined as the interaction between antibodies and antigens	Humoral immunology involves the interaction of what two elements?
Immunological research continues to become more specialized, pursuing non-classical models of immunity and functions of cells, organs and systems not previously associated with the immune system 	In the field of immunology, what aspect is becoming more specialized?
Clinical immunology is the study of diseases caused by disorders of the immune system 	The study of diseases caused by immune system disorders is called?
Other immune system disorders include various hypersensitivities that respond inappropriately to otherwise harmless compounds	What is a type of immune system disorder?
The most well-known disease that affects the immune system itself is AIDS, an immunodeficiency characterized by the suppression of CD4+ T cells, dendritic cells and macrophages by the Human Immunodeficiency Virus 	What is the most famous immune system disease?
The body’s capability to react to antigen depends on a person's age, antigen type, maternal factors and the area where the antigen is presented	What are the four factors that determine how the body reacts to an antigen?
Maternal factors also play a role in the body’s immune response	In babies, what is another element impacting immune response?
During adolescence, the human body undergoes various physical, physiological and immunological changes triggered and mediated by hormones, of which the most significant in females is 17-β-oestradiol and, in males, is testosterone	What is the primary trigger for immunological changes in teens?
Immunology is strongly experimental in everyday practice but is also characterized by an ongoing theoretical attitude	The routine practice of immunology can best be characterized as?
In the mid-1950s, Frank Burnet, inspired by a suggestion made by Niels Jerne, formulated the clonal selection theory of immunity	What medical scientist first proposed the clonal selection theory of immunology?
Bioscience is the overall major in which undergraduate students who are interested in general well-being take in college	What discipline can undergraduate students interested in general health study?
Most graduate immunology schools follow the AAI courses immunology which are offered throughout numerous schools in the United States	Most graduate schools specializing in immunology follow what organization's parameters?
It also has two different parts: Part I is an introduction to the basic principles of immunology and Part II is a clinically-oriented lecture series	Part 1 of the AAI introductory immunology course is meant to be what?
MPEG-1 or MPEG-2 Audio Layer III, more commonly referred to as MP3, is an audio coding format for digital audio which uses a form of lossy data compression	What is the common name for MPEG-2 Audio Layer III?
The use of lossy compression is designed to greatly reduce the amount of data required to represent the audio recording and still sound like a faithful reproduction of the original uncompressed audio for most listeners	What is the main goal aside from reducing the amount of data required to store the audio?
The compression works by reducing the accuracy of certain parts of a sound that are considered to be beyond the auditory resolution ability of most people	What does the compression target in the song?
MP3 was designed by the Moving Picture Experts Group as part of its MPEG-1 standard and later extended in the MPEG-2 standard	Who designed MP3?
The MP3 lossy audio data compression algorithm takes advantage of a perceptual limitation of human hearing called auditory masking	What does the MP3 compression take advantage of?
The psychoacoustic masking codec was first proposed in 1979, apparently independently, by Manfred R	What was first proposed in 1979?
"The immediate predecessors of MP3 were ""Optimum Coding in the Frequency Domain"" , and Perceptual Transform Coding "	What does OCF stand for?
As a doctoral student at Germany's University of Erlangen-Nuremberg, Karlheinz Brandenburg began working on digital music compression in the early 1980s, focusing on how people perceive music	What kind of student was Karlheinz Brandenburg?
"The song ""Tom's Diner"" by Suzanne Vega was the first song used by Karlheinz Brandenburg to develop the MP3"	What was the name of the first song used to develop the MP3?
In 1991, there were only two proposals available that could be completely assessed for an MPEG audio standard: Musicam and ASPEC 	How many proposals were available in 1991?
Much of its technology and ideas were incorporated into the definition of ISO MPEG Audio Layer I and Layer II and the filter bank alone into Layer III format as part of the computationally inefficient hybrid filter bank	What was only incorporated into Layer III and not Layers I or II?
ASPEC was the joint proposal of AT&T Bell Laboratories, Thomson Consumer Electronics, Fraunhofer Society and CNET	What was the name given to the proposal?
Johnston took ideas from ASPEC, integrated the filter bank from Layer 2, added some of their own ideas and created MP3, which was designed to achieve the same quality at 128 kbit/s as MP2 at 192 kbit/s	What did the working group take ideas from?
All algorithms for MPEG-1 Audio Layer I, II and III were approved in 1991 and finalized in 1992 as part of MPEG-1, the first standard suite by MPEG, which resulted in the international standard ISO/IEC 11172-3 (a	When were the algorithms approved?
Further work on MPEG audio was finalized in 1994 as part of the second suite of MPEG standards, MPEG-2, more formally known as international standard ISO/IEC 13818-3 (a	Further work on MPEG was finalized as a part of which MPEG standard?
This extension was developed at Fraunhofer IIS, the registered MP3 patent holders	Where was this extension developed?
Compression efficiency of encoders is typically defined by the bit rate, because compression ratio depends on the bit depth and sampling rate of the input signal	What defines the compression efficiency of encoders?
"Karlheinz Brandenburg used a CD recording of Suzanne Vega's song ""Tom's Diner"" to assess and refine the MP3 compression algorithm"	What type of recording did Brandenburg use?
A reference simulation software implementation, written in the C language and later known as ISO 11172-5, was developed by the members of the ISO MPEG Audio committee in order to produce bit compliant MPEG Audio files 	Which language was the reference simulation software written in?
On 7 July 1994, the Fraunhofer Society released the first software MP3 encoder called l3enc	When was the first software MP3 encoder released?
"As sound scholar Jonathan Sterne notes, ""An Australian hacker acquired l3enc using a stolen credit card"	What was Jonathan Sterne's profession?
In the second half of '90s, MP3 files began to spread on the Internet	Where did MP3s begin to spread?
com was offering thousands of MP3s created by independent artists for free	How many MP3s were offered for free by the website?
The ease of creating and sharing MP3s resulted in widespread copyright infringement	What kind of infringement resulted from sharing MP3s?
Unauthorized MP3 file sharing continues on next-generation peer-to-peer networks	What kind of MP3 file sharing continues on?
An MP3 file is made up of MP3 frames, which consist of a header and a data block	A header and data block together make up what?
The MPEG-1 standard does not include a precise specification for an MP3 encoder, but does provide example psychoacoustic models, rate loop, and the like in the non-normative part of the original standard	Which standard does not include a specification for an MP3 encoder?
During encoding, 576 time-domain samples are taken and are transformed to 576 frequency-domain samples	How many domain samples are taken during encoding?
Due to the tree structure of the filter bank, pre-echo problems are made worse, as the combined impulse response of the two filter banks does not, and cannot, provide an optimum solution in time/frequency resolution	What kind of structure does a filter bank have?
Decoding, on the other hand, is carefully defined in the standard	What is carefully defined in the standard?
Encoder / decoder overall delay is not defined, which means there is no official provision for gapless playback	What is there no official provision for?
When performing lossy audio encoding, such as creating an MP3 file, there is a trade-off between the amount of space used and the sound quality of the result	A typical trade off when creating an MP3 file is between the amount of space used and what other factor?
With too low a bit rate, compression artifacts (i	If the bit rate is too low, what might be audible in the reproduction?
Besides the bit rate of an encoded piece of audio, the quality of MP3 files also depends on the quality of the encoder itself, and the difficulty of the signal being encoded	Other than the bit rate and the difficulty of the signal, what can also affect the quality of an MP3 file?
The simplest type of MP3 file uses one bit rate for the entire file: this is known as Constant Bit Rate encoding	How many bit rates does the simplest type of MP3 file use?
Perceived quality can be influenced by listening environment , listener attention, and listener training and in most cases by listener audio equipment 	A listening environment is also know by which term?
A test given to new students by Stanford University Music Professor Jonathan Berger showed that student preference for MP3-quality music has risen each year	Who gave students a test to determine their preferences?
"An in-depth study of MP3 audio quality, sound artist and composer Ryan Maguire's project ""The Ghost in the MP3"" isolates the sounds lost during MP3 compression"	What is the name of the study done by composer Ryan Maguire?
 Because of the Nyquist–Shannon sampling theorem, frequency reproduction is always strictly less than half of the sampling frequency, and imperfect filters requires a larger margin for error , so 8 kHz sampling rate limits the maximum frequency to 4 kHz, while 48 kHz maximum sampling rate limits an MP3 to 24 kHz sound reproduction	What is the name of the sampling theorem?
1 kHz is almost always used, because this is also used for CD audio, the main source used for creating MP3 files	What is the main source used for creating MP3 files?
Uncompressed audio as stored on an audio-CD has a bit rate of 1,411	What is stored on an audio-CD that has a bit rate of 1,411.2 kbit/s?
Non-standard bit rates up to 640 kbit/s can be achieved with the LAME encoder and the freeformat option, although few MP3 players can play those files	What is the highest bit rate the LAME encoder allows?
Early MPEG Layer III encoders used what is now called Constant Bit Rate 	What does the term CBR mean?
A more sophisticated MP3 encoder can produce variable bitrate audio	What kind of audio can a sophisticated MP3 encoder produce?
"Layer III audio can also use a ""bit reservoir"", a partially full frame's ability to hold part of the next frame's audio data, allowing temporary changes in effective bitrate, even in a constant bitrate stream"	A partially full frame's ability to have part of the next frame's audio data is referred to as what?
There is no scale factor band 21 for frequencies above approx 16 kHz, forcing the encoder to choose between less accurate representation in band 21 or less efficient storage in all bands below band 21, the latter resulting in wasted bitrate in VBR encoding	What can scale factor band 21 be shortened to?
"A ""tag"" in an audio file is a section of the file that contains metadata such as the title, artist, album, track number or other information about the file's contents"	What is a section of a file that contains metadeta referred to as?
As of 2010, the most widespread are ID3v1 and ID3v2, and the more recently introduced APEv2	Other than the ID3v1, which similar standard format for tag exists?
ReplayGain is a standard for measuring and storing the loudness of an MP3 file in its metadata tag, enabling a ReplayGain-compliant player to automatically adjust the overall playback volume for each file	What is the name given to the standard for measure and storing the loudness of an MP3 file?
The basic MP3 decoding and encoding technology is patent-free in the European Union, all patents having expired there	Where is the basic MP3 decoding and technology patent free?
These claims led to a number of legal threats and actions from a variety of sources	What has many organizations claiming ownership of patents related to aspects of MP3 led to?
The initial near-complete MPEG-1 standard was publicly available on 6 December 1991 as ISO CD 11172	What became publicly available on 6 December 1991?
An exception is the United States, where patents filed prior to 8 June 1995 expire 17 years after the publication date of the patent, but application extensions make it possible for a patent to issue much later than normally expected 	How long does it take for patents to expire in the United States?
Technicolor claims to control MP3 licensing of the Layer 3 patents in many countries, including the United States, Japan, Canada and EU countries	What was Technicolor's previous name?
"In September 1998, the Fraunhofer Institute sent a letter to several developers of MP3 software stating that a license was required to ""distribute and/or sell decoders and/or encoders"""	When did the Fraunhofer institute send out a letter?
previously sued Thomson for patent infringement on MP3 technology, but those disputes were resolved in November 2005 with Sisvel granting Thomson a license to their patents	Who was sued for patent infringement on MP3 technology?
In September 2006, German officials seized MP3 players from SanDisk's booth at the IFA show in Berlin after an Italian patents firm won an injunction on behalf of Sisvel against SanDisk in a dispute over licensing rights	What did German officials seize from SanDisk on September 2006?
In February 2007, Texas MP3 Technologies sued Apple, Samsung Electronics and Sandisk in eastern Texas federal court, claiming infringement of a portable MP3 player patent that Texas MP3 said it had been assigned	Who sued Apple, Samsung Electronics and Sandisk in 2007?
Alcatel-Lucent has asserted several MP3 coding and compression patents, allegedly inherited from AT&T-Bell Labs, in litigation of its own	Which company allegedly inherited MP3 patents from AT&T-Bell LAbs?
Among these, mp3PRO, AAC, and MP2 are all members of the same technological family as MP3 and depend on roughly similar psychoacoustic models	AAC, mp3PRO and MP2 are all members of the same technological family as which other lossy format?
There are also open compression formats like Opus and Vorbis that are available free of charge and without any known patent restrictions	Opus and Vorbis are two explans of what kind of compression format?
Besides lossy compression methods, lossless formats are a significant alternative to MP3 because they provide unaltered audio content, though with an increased file size compared to lossy compression	What is a significant alternative to MP3?
House music is a genre of electronic dance music that originated in Chicago in the early 1980s	What city did House music originate from?
Early house music was generally dance-based music characterized by repetitive 4/4 beats, rhythms mainly provided by drum machines, off-beat hi-hat cymbals, and synthesized basslines	House music is characterized by what type of beats?
After enjoying significant success in the early to mid-90s, house music grew even larger during the second wave of progressive house 	When was the second wave of progressive house?
"Various disco songs incorporated sounds produced with synthesizers and drum machines, and some compositions were entirely electronic; examples include Giorgio Moroder's late 1970s productions such as Donna Summer's hit single ""I Feel Love"" from 1977, Cerrone's ""Supernature"" , Yellow Magic Orchestra's synth-disco-pop productions from Yellow Magic Orchestra , Solid State Survivor , and several early 1980s disco-pop productions by the Hi-NRG group Lime"	What instruments did disco songs incorporate from house music?
Soul and disco influenced house music, plus mixing and editing techniques earlier explored by disco, garage music and post-disco DJs, producers, and audio engineers such as Walter Gibbons, Tom Moulton, Jim Burgess, Larry Levan, Ron Hardy, M & M, and others who produced longer, more repetitive, and percussive arrangements of existing disco recordings	What influenced House music?
The electronic instrumentation and minimal arrangement of Charanjit Singh's Synthesizing: Ten Ragas to a Disco Beat , an album of Indian ragas performed in a disco style, anticipated the sounds of acid house music, but it is not known to have had any influence on the genre prior to the album's rediscovery in the 21st century	What was the name of Charanjit Singh's 1982 album?
Rachel Cain, co-founder of an influential Trax Records, was previously involved in the burgeoning punk scene and cites industrial and post-punk record store Wax Trax	Who is Rachel Cain?
In the early 1980s, Chicago radio jocks The Hot Mix 5, and club DJs Ron Hardy and Frankie Knuckles played various styles of dance music, including older disco records , electro funk tracks by artists such as Afrika Bambaataa, newer Italo disco, B-Boy hip hop music by Man Parrish, Jellybean Benitez, Arthur Baker, and John Robie, and electronic pop music by Kraftwerk and Yellow Magic Orchestra	who were the chicago radio jocks that played dance music in the early 1980s?
"The hypnotic electronic dance song ""On and On"", produced in 1984 by Chicago DJ Jesse Saunders and co-written by Vince Lawrence, had elements that became staples of the early house sound, such as the Roland TB-303 bass synthesizer and minimal vocals as well as a Roland drum machine and Korg synthesizer"	"who produced the song ""on and on"" in 1984?"
"Starting in 1984, some of these DJs, inspired by Jesse Saunders' success with ""On and On"", tried their hand at producing and releasing original compositions"	"when was jesse saunders' ""on and on"" a hit?"
"Deep house's origins can be traced to Chicago producer Mr Fingers's relatively jazzy, soulful recordings ""Mystery of Love"" and ""Can You Feel It"	what producer was the first to produce deep house? 
"Acid house arose from Chicago artists' experiments with the squelchy Roland TB-303 bass synthesizer, and the style's origins on vinyl is generally cited as Phuture's ""Acid Tracks"" "	"When was Phuture's ""Acid Tracks"" released?"
Club play from pioneering Chicago DJs such as Hardy and Lil Louis, local dance music record shops such as Importes, State Street Records, Loop Records, Gramaphone Records and the popular Hot Mix 5 shows on radio station WBMX-FM helped popularize house music in Chicago	what radio station aired the Hot Mix 5 show?
"The term ""house music"" is said to have originated from a Chicago club called The Warehouse, which existed from 1977 to 1983"	what club did the term 'house music' originate from?
"'s 1985 recording ""It's House"" may also have helped to define this new form of electronic music"	what is the name of Chip E's 1985 house hit?
In a 1986 interview, Rocky Jones, the former club DJ who ran the D	who ran the D.J. International record label?
"Fingers"", claims that the term ""house"" became popular due to many of the early DJs creating music in their own homes using synthesizers and drum machines such as the Roland TR-808, TR-909, and the TB 303"	Why did the term house become popular? 
"Juan Atkins, an originator of Detroit techno music, claims the term ""house"" reflected the exclusive association of particular tracks with particular clubs and DJs; those records helped differentiate the clubs and DJs, and thus were considered to be their ""house"" records"	What is Juan Atkins an originator of?
House also had an influence of relaying political messages to people who were considered to be outcasts of society	Who did House relay political messages to? 
"It was developed starting in the late 80s, one of the earliest hits being ""Big Fun"" by Inner City"	what was one of the earliest Detroit techno hits?
Derrick May a	What was the real name of the artist Mayday?
Kevin Saunderson's company KMS Records contributed many releases that were as much house music as they were techno	who founded KMS Records?
" The record generally credited as the first house hit in the UK was Farley ""Jackmaster"" Funk's ""Love Can't Turn Around"" which reached #10 in the UK singles chart in September 1986"	what is credited as the first house hit in the UK?
"In January 1987, Chicago artist Steve ""Silk"" Hurley's ""Jack Your Body"" reached number one in the UK, showing it was possible for house music to cross over"	What was the first house single to hit #1 in the UK?
The tour in March 1987 of Knuckles, Jefferson, Fingers Inc	when did the DJ International Tour take place?
"One of the early anthemic tunes, ""Promised Land"" by Joe Smooth, was covered and charted within a week by the Style Council"	"who released the hit single ""promised land""?"
The house scene in cities such as Birmingham, Leeds, Sheffield and London were also provided with many underground Pirate Radio stations and DJs alike which helped bolster an already contagious, but otherwise ignored by the mainstream, music genre	what cities in the UK had major house scenes?
But house was also being developed on Ibiza, although no house artists or labels were coming from this tiny island at the time	what tiny island was house music also being devloped on?
In Chicago, Marshall Jefferson had formed the house group Ten City Byron Burke, Byron Stingily & Herb Lawson	what group did Marshall Jefferson form?
"Atkins, a former member of Cybotron, released Model 500 ""No UFOs"" in 1985, which became a regional hit, followed by dozens of tracks on Transmat, Metroplex and Fragile"	atkins was a former member of what music group?
Paradise Garage in New York City was still a top club	what was a top club for house music in new york city?
In the late 1980s, Nu Groove Records prolonged, if not launched the careers of Rheji Burrell & Rhano Burrell, collectively known as Burrell , along with basically every relevant DJ and Producer in the NY underground scene	what label launched the careers of burrell?
By the late 80s, House had moved West, particularly to San Francisco, Oakland, Los Angeles, Fresno, San Diego and Seattle	where did DJs marques wyatt and billy long become successful?
"Pop recording artist Madonna's 1990 single ""Vogue"" became an international hit single and topped the US charts"	what madonna single is credited as helping bring house music to the mainstream?
"Influential gospel/R&B-influenced Aly-us released ""Time Passes On"" in 1993 , then later, ""Follow Me"" which received radio airplay as well as being played in clubs"	"What gospel/R&B-influenced group released ""Time Passes On"" in 1993?"
In Britain, further experiments in the genre boosted its appeal	"where did the ""chilling out"" concept develop?"
"The Criminal Justice and Public Order Act 1994 was a government attempt to ban large rave dance events featuring music with ""repetitive beats"""	what act was passed in england in an attempt to ban large rave dance events?
A new generation of clubs such as Liverpool's Cream and the Ministry of Sound were opened to provide a venue for more commercial sounds	where was a new type of club called Cream located?
Germain and DJ Falcon began producing a new sound out of Paris's house scene	Daft Punk began producing a new sound out of what european city?
"Daley proclaimed August 10, 2005 to be ""House Unity Day"" in Chicago, in celebration of the ""21st anniversary of house music"" "	When was House Unity Day in Chicago?
It was during this decade that vocal house became firmly established, both in the underground and as part of the pop market, and labels such as Defected Records, Roule and Om were at the forefront of championing the emerging sound	Defected Records was at the forefront of what type of house music?
Numerous live performance events dedicated to house music were founded during the course of the decade, including Shambhala Music Festival and major industry sponsored events like Miami's Winter Music Conference	Where did the Winter Music Conference take place? 
"Sweden knew a prominence of snare-less ""Swedish progressive house"" with the emergence of Sebastian Ingrosso, Axwell, Steve Angello , Avicii, Alesso, etc"	What was different about swedish progressive house music?
In addition to these popular examples of house, there has also been a reunification of contemporary house and its roots	There has been a reunification of contemporary house with what?
These terms originated from the common layouts of the shallow drawers called type cases used to hold the movable type for letterpress printing	The terms uppercase and lowercase originated from the common layout which type of drawers?
newspapers is to use sentence-style capitalisation in headlines, where capitalisation follows the same rules that apply for sentences	What is the basis of capitalization standards for the sentence-style capitalization?
The lower-case script for the Greek alphabet has its origins in the 7th century and acquired its quadrilinear form in the 8th century	Which century did the lower-case script for the Greek Alphabet originate?
In orthography and typography, letter case is the distinction between the letters that are in larger upper case and smaller lower case in the written representation of certain languages	In orthography and typography, what is the distinction between the letters that are in larger upper case and lower upper case
text), is universally standardized for formal writing	Capitalization in English is universally standardized for which type of writing?
Originally alphabets were written entirely in majuscule letters, spaced between well-defined upper and lower bounds	Originally alphabets were written entirely in which type of letter?
Letter case is often prescribed by the grammar of a language or by the conventions of a particular discipline	What is often prescribed by the grammar of a language or by conventions of a particular discipline?
Typographically, the basic difference between the majuscules and minuscules is not that the majuscules are big and minuscules small, but that the majuscules generally have the same height	Who do majuscules have which distinguish themselves from minuscules?
Most Western languages use letter cases in their written form as an aid to clarity	What do most Western languages use in their written form to add clarity?
"In Latin, papyri from Herculaneum dating before 79 AD have been found that have been written in old Roman cursive, where the early forms of minuscule letters ""d"", ""h"" and ""r"", for example, can already be recognised"	Papyri from Herculaneum dating before 79 AD have been to to be written in which hand writing?
publishers to capitalise significant words 	What is capitalization of significant words applied to in the United States besides titles?
"As briefly discussed in Unicode Technical Note #26, ""In terms of implementation issues, any attempt at a unification of Latin, Greek, and Cyrillic would wreak havoc make casing operations an unholy mess, in effect making all casing operations context sensitive """	Attempts to unify Latin, Greek, and Cyrillic would create which sort of problems?
During the 14th century in the northeastern part of the state nomad tribes by the name of Jornado hunted bison along the Rio Grande; they left numerous rock paintings throughout the northeastern part of the state	What was the name of the nomad tribes that hunted bison?
"During the Napoleonic Occupation of Spain, Miguel Hidalgo y Costilla, a Catholic priest of progressive ideas, declared Mexican independence in the small town of Dolores, Guanajuato on September 16, 1810 with a proclamation known as the ""Grito de Dolores"""	What was the name of the town in which Miguel Hidalgo y Costilla declared independence?
Santa Anna ordered the reinstatement of Mendarozqueta as comandante general	Who did Santa Anna order the reinstatement as comandante general?
The Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo, signed on February 2, 1848, by American diplomat Nicholas Trist and Mexican plenipotentiary representatives Luis G	What was the name of the treaty that ended the war?
In consequence to the Reform War, the federal government was bankrupt and could not pay its foreign debts to Spain, England, and France	Which countries owned Mexican debt?
Maximilian was deeply dissatisfied with General Bazaine's decision to abandon the state capital of Chihuahua and immediately ordered Agustín B	Who was deeply dissatisfied with Bazaine's decision to abandon Chihuahua?
After the death of the president Benito Juárez in 1872, the first magistracy of the country was occupied by the vice-president Sebastián Lerdo de Tejada, who called for new elections	In which year did Benito Juarez die?
In March 1912, in Chihuahua, Gen	Which year did Orozco revolt?
Although Chihuahua is primarily identified with the Chihuahuan Desert for namesake, it has more forests than any other state in Mexico, with the exception of Durango	Which state has more forests than Chihuahua?
government to bring Villa to justice for the raid on Columbus, New Mexico; U	Which city did Villa raid?
La Cueva De Las Ventanas , a series of cliff dwellings along an important trade route, and Las Jarillas Cave scrambled along the canyons of the Sierra Madre in Northwestern Chihuahua date between AD 1205 and 1260 and belong to the Paquimé culture	Along which mountain range does the Cave of Windows lie?
In 1631 Juan Rangel de Biezma discovered a rich vein of silver, and subsequently established San Jose del Parral near the site	Which precious metal did Biezma discover?
The earliest evidence of human inhabitants of modern day Chihuahua was discovered in the area of Samalayuca and Rancho Colorado	In which areas were the earliest human inhabitants discovered?
During the period from 2000–2005 it is estimated that 49,722 people left the state for the United States	How many people left the state for the U.S. between 2000-2005?
In the constituent legislature or convention, the conservative and liberal elements formed using the nicknames of Chirrines and Cuchas	Which nicknames were used to form the conservative and liberal elements?
In 1562 Francisco de Ibarra headed a personal expedition in search of the mythical cities of Cibola and Quivira; he traveled through the present-day state of Chihuahua	Which cities was Ibarra looking for?
The state has the 12th-largest state economy in Mexico, accounting for 2	The state's economy ranks in what place in the country Mexico
The first person elected under the new constitution of 1825 was Simón Elías Gonzalez, who being in Sonora, was induced to remain there	Who was the first person elected under the new constitution?
Between AD 300 and 1300 in the northern part of the state along the wide, fertile valley on the San Miguel River the Casas Grandes culture developed into an advanced civilization	In which region of the state did culture develop?
The state seemed at relative calm compared to the rest of the country due to its close ties to the United States until 1841	Until what year did the state remain calm?
Santa Bárbara became the launching place for expeditions into New Mexico by Spanish conquistadors like: Antonio de Espejo, Gaspar Castaño, Antonio Gutiérrez de Umaña, Francisco Leyba de Bonilla, and Vicente de Zaldívar	Which city became the launching place for expeditions into New Mexico?
Hidalgo is hailed as the Father of the Nation even though it was Agustin de Iturbide and not Hidalgo who achieved Mexican Independence in 1821	Who was hailed as the Father of the Nation?
On February 8, 1847, Doniphan continued his march with 924 men mostly from Missouri; he accompanied a train of 315 wagons of a large commercial caravan heading to the state capital	In which year did Doniphan march with men from Missouri?
The anti-clerical feeling was widespread, and Durango supported the initial reaction against the government at Mexico	Who supported the reaction against the government?
Under threat from the conservative forces, Governor Terrazas was deposed, and the state legislature proclaimed martial law in the state in April 1864 and established Jesús José Casavantes as the new governor	Who was deposed under threat from conservative forces?
The state united behind the Plan of Ayutla and ratified the new constitution in 1855	In which year was the new constitution ratified?
After running imperial military affairs in the states of Coahuila and Durango, General Agustín Enrique Brincourt made preparations to invade the state of Chihuahua	Brincourt made preparations to invade which state?
General Aguirre moved to the deserts of the southeastern portion of the state and defeated the French forces in Parral, led by Colonel Cottret	Where did Aguirre defeat the French forces?
The United States Congress declared war on Mexico on May 13, 1846 after only having a few hours to debate	Who declared war on Mexico in 1846?
But the peace in the state did not last long, the elections of 1875 caused new hostilities	The elections of which year caused new hostilities?
Under Governor Miguel Ahumada, the education system in the state was unified and brought under tighter control by the state government, and the metric system was standardized throughout the state to replace the colonial system of weights and measures	Under which governor was the education system unified?
Despite the internal stability , modernization, and economic growth in Mexico during the Porfiriato from 1876 to 1910, many across the state became deeply dissatisfied with the political system	The internal stability was known as what?
In response to Madero's letter to action, Pascual Orozco and Chihuahua Governor Abraham González formed a powerful military union in the north, taking military control of several northern Mexican cities with other revolutionary leaders, including Pancho Villa	Orozco responded to whose letter to action?
The situation became so tense that war with the United States seemed imminent	War with what country seemed imminent?
The state of Chihuahua is the largest state in the country and is known as El Estado Grande ; it accounts for 12	Which state is the largest in the country by land?
The climate in the state depends mainly in the elevation of the terrain	Climate in the state depends mainly on what?
The Chihuahuan Desert is home to a diverse ecosystem which is home to a large variety of mammals	The Chihuahuan Desert is home to many of which type of animal?
Villa and Carranza had different political goals causing Villa to become an enemy of Carranza	Villa became an enemy of whom?
The pronounced rainy season in the steppe is usually observed in the months of July, August, and September	Which months make up the pronounced rainy season in the steppe?
The state has a great diversity due to the large number of microclimates found and dramatic varying terrain	The state has great diversity thanks to the large number of what?
The state has one city with a population exceeding one million: Ciudad Juárez	Which city in the state exceeds one million?
The French forces tried to subdue and capture the liberal government based in Saltillo	French forces tried to capture the liberal government based where?
President Benito Juárez was re-elected in the general election of 1867 in which he received strong liberal support, especially in Chihuahua	Benito Juarez was reelected in which year?
The Díaz administration made political decisions and took legal measures that allowed the elite throughout Mexico to concentrate the nation's wealth by favoring monopolies	The Diaz administration allowed the elite to concentrate wealth by favoring what?
The end of the Porfiriato came in 1910 with the beginning of the Mexican Revolution	The Porfiriato ended in which year?
The uneasy alliance of Carranza, Obregón, Villa, and Zapata eventually led the rebels to victory	The uneasy alliance between whom eventually won rebels the victory?
The main mountain range in the state is the Sierra Madre Occidental reaching a maximum altitude of 10,826 ft known as Cerro Mohinora	Which is the main mountain range in the state?
In the far eastern part of the state the Chihuahuan Desert dominates due to low precipitation and extremely high temperatures; some areas of the eastern part of the state are so dry no vegetation is found like the Sand Dunes of Samalayuca	What type of land dominates in the eastern part of the state?
The state is also a host to a large population of birds which include endemic species and migratory species: greater roadrunner Geococcyx californianus, cactus wren Campylorhynchus brunneicapillus, Mexican jay Aphelocoma ultramarina, Steller's jay Cyanocitta stelleri, acorn woodpecker Melanerpes formicivorus, canyon towhee Pipilo fuscus, mourning dove Zenaida macroura, broad-billed hummingbird Cynanthus latirostris, Montezuma quail Cyrtonyx montezumae, mountain trogon Trogon mexicanus, turkey vulture Cathartes aura, and golden eagle Aquila chrysaetos	The state hosts populations of birds of both endemic species and what?
During the Mexican Revolution, Álvaro Obregón invited a group of Canadian German-speaking Mennonites to resettle in Mexico	Who invited Canadians to resettle in Mexico during the Mexican Revolution?
Agriculture is a relatively small component of the state's economy and varies greatly due to the varying climate across the state	Agriculture varies across the state because of the variation in what?
Nueva Vizcaya was the first province of northern New Spain to be explored and settled by the Spanish	What was the first province of northern New Spain to be explored?
Hidalgo was turned over to the Bishop of Durango, Francisco Gabriel de Olivares, for an official defrocking and excommunication on July 27, 1811	Hidalgo was turned over by whom?
Because of the general instability of the federal government during 1828, the installation of the new legislature did not take place until the middle of the following year	During which year was the federal government unstable?
The state was in the midst of a war with the Apaches, which became the focus of all their energy and resources	The state was in a war with what group?
After the occupation the people of the state were worried about the potential attack from the hostile indigenous tribes north of the Rio Grande; as a result a decree on July 19, 1848, the state established 18 military colonies along the Rio Grande	What group continuously attacked Mexican settlements?
The liberal political forces maintained strong control over the state government until shortly after the French Intervention which turned the tables in favor to the conservative forces once again	Which political forces maintained strong control over the state until shortly after French intervention?
President Juárez once again based his government in the state of Chihuahua and it served as the center for the resistance against the French invasion throughout Mexico	Juarez again based his government in which state?
The officials in Mexico City reduced the price of corn from six cents to two cents a pound	The officials in Mexico reduced the price of what food from six cents to two cents per pound?
The state economy was largely defined by ranching and mining	The state's economy was largely defined by these two industries.
On March 26, 1913, Venustiano Carranza issued the Plan de Guadalupe, which refused to recognize Huerta as president and called for war between the two factions	Who issued the Plan de Guadalupe?
The desert zone also accounts for about a third of the state's surface area	The desert zone accounts for how much of the state's surface area?
In the mountain zone of the state the most observed mammals are: Mexican fox squirrel , antelope jackrabbit , raccoon , hooded skunk , wild boar , collared peccary , white-tailed deer , mule deer Odocoileus hemionus, American bison Bison bison, cougar , eastern cottontail Sylvilagus floridanus, North American porcupine Erethizon dorsatum, bobcat Lynx rufus, Mexican wolf Canis lupus baileyi, and coyote Canis latrans	Canis latrans is what animal?
The last census in Mexico that asked for an individual's race, which was taken in 1921, indicated that 50	The last census in Mexico that asked for race was carried out in which year?
During the 1990s after NAFTA was signed, industrial development grew rapidly with foreign investment	What agreement sparked industrial development during the 1990s?
Shias believe that Imamah is of the Principles of Faith 	Who believe that Imamah is of the Principles of Faith?
Imamah is the Shia Islam doctrine of religious, spiritual and political leadership of the Ummah	What is the Shia Islam doctrine called?
Within Shia Islam , the various sects came into being because they differed over their Imams' successions, just as the Shia - Sunni separation within Islam itself had come into being from the dispute that had arisen over the succession to Muhammad	Why did different sects come about within Shiism?
] And that is maybe why the basic characteristic of Muhammad and other prophets was their nobility	What is the basic characteristis of Muhammad and the prophets?
"The word ""Imām"" denotes a person who stands or walks ""in front"""	What word literally means a person who stands or walks in front?
Although all these different Shia tariqahs belong to the Shia group in Islam, there are major doctrinal differences between the main Shia tariqahs	What group do the Shia tariqahs belong to?
"According to Ismā‘īlīsm, Allah has sent ""seven"" great prophets known as “Nātıq” in order to disseminate and improve his Dīn of Islam"	How many great prophets has Allah sent?
"The Shia tariqah with a majority of adherents are the Twelvers who are commonly known as the ""Shia"""	In Shia tariqah, what are the Twelvers commonly known as?
During the Minor Occultation , it is believed that al-Mahdi maintained contact with his followers via deputies (Arab	How did al-Mahdi maintain contact during his Occultation?
The Ismailis differ from Twelvers because they had living imams for centuries after the last Twelver Imam went into concealment	How do Ismailis differ from Twelvers?
The line of imams of the Mustali Ismaili Shia Muslims continued up to Aamir ibn Mustali	What are the Mustali Ismaili Shia Muslims also known as?
"All Muslims believe that Muhammad had said: ""To whomsoever I am Mawla, Ali is his Mawla"	"Who do Muslims believe said ""To whomsoever I am Mawla, Ali is his Mawla?"
By the verse Quran, 2:124, Shias believe that Imamah is a divine position always Imamah is accompanied by the word guidance, of course a guidance by God's Command	By what Quran verse to Shias believe that Imamah is a divine position?
Each Imam was the son of the previous Imam except for Hussayn ibn 'Alī, who was the brother of Hassan ibn 'Alī	Who was the brother of Hassan ibn 'Ali?
Pitch is an auditory sensation in which a listener assigns musical tones to relative positions on a musical scale based primarily on their perception of the frequency of vibration	What type of sensation is pitch?
This creates a linear pitch space in which octaves have size 12, semitones have size 1, and A440 is assigned the number 69	Octaves in linear pitch are what size?
1	Semitones in linear pitch are what size?
In the west, the twelve-note chromatic scale is the most common method of organization, with equal temperament now the most widely used method of tuning that scale	What is the most common method of organization?
According to the American National Standards Institute, pitch is the auditory attribute of sound according to which sounds can be ordered on a scale from low to high	Pitch is the auditory attribute to what?
A sound generated on any instrument produces many modes of vibration that occur simultaneously	This produces many modes of vibration that occur simultaneously?
The pitch of complex tones can be ambiguous, meaning that two or more different pitches can be perceived, depending upon the observer	The pitch of complex tones can be?
The just-noticeable difference depends on the tone's frequency content	The just-noticeable difference, at which a change is perceived depends on what?
For instance, a snare drum sounds higher pitched than a bass drum though both have indefinite pitch, because its sound contains higher frequencies	Which drum has a higher perceived pitch even though they both have indefinite pitch?
"In standard Western equal temperament, the notion of pitch is insensitive to ""spelling"": the description ""G4 double sharp"" refers to the same pitch as A4; in other temperaments, these may be distinct pitches"	The notion of pitch is insensitive to what?
The precise way this temporal structure helps code for pitch at higher levels is still debated, but the processing seems to be based on an autocorrelation of action potentials in the auditory nerve	The precise way this temporal structure helps code for pitch at higher levels is based on what?
The motif of the England national football team has three lions passant guardant, the emblem of King Richard I, who reigned from 1189 to 1199	When did King Richard I begin his reign?
Although England's first away kits were blue, England's traditional away colours are red shirts, white shorts and red socks	What color were England's first away kits?
The team's earliest exit in the competition itself was its elimination in the first round in 1950, 1958 and most recently in the 2014 FIFA World Cup, after being defeated in both their opening two matches for the first time, versus Italy and Uruguay in Group D	In what year was England most recently eliminated from FIFA World Cup contention?
Their first ever defeat on home soil to a foreign team was an 0–2 loss to the Republic of Ireland, on 21 September 1949 at Goodison Park	In what year did England suffer their first defeat at home to a foreign team?
In February 2012, Capello resigned from his role as England manager, following a disagreement with the FA over their request to remove John Terry from team captaincy after accusations of racial abuse concerning the player	In what year did Capello resign as England's football manager?
The England national football team represents England and the Crown Dependencies of Jersey, Guernsey and the Isle of Man for football matches as part of FIFA-authorised events, and is controlled by The Football Association, the governing body for football in England	Which governing body controls the England national football team?
They joined FIFA in 1906 and played their first ever games against countries other than the Home Nations on a tour of Central Europe in 1908	In which year did England join FIFA?
England is quite a successful nation at the UEFA European Football Championship, having finished in third place in 1968 and reached the semi-final in 1996	In which place did England finish in the UEFA European Football Championship in 1968?
England qualified for the 1970 FIFA World Cup in Mexico as reigning champions, and reached the quarter-finals, where they were knocked out by West Germany	A defeat by which team eliminated England from the 1970 FIFA World Cup?
Sven-Göran Eriksson took charge of the team between 2001 and 2006, and was the first non–English manager of England	Who was the first non-English person to manage England's football team?
All England matches are broadcast with full commentary on BBC Radio 5 Live	Commentated broadcasts of all England matches air on what network?
England first appeared at the 1950 FIFA World Cup and have appeared in 14 FIFA World Cups, they are tied for sixth-best in terms of number of wins alongside France and Spain	In how many FIFA world cups has England appeared?
In August 1836, two real estate entrepreneurs—Augustus Chapman Allen and John Kirby Allen—from New York, purchased 6,642 acres (26	Where were Augustus Chapman Allen and John Kirby Allen from?
When World War II started, tonnage levels at the port decreased and shipping activities were suspended; however, the war did provide economic benefits for the city	What event cause shipping activities to be suspended?
The space industry also suffered in 1986 after the Space Shuttle Challenger disintegrated shortly after launch	In what year did the space shuttle Challenger explode after launch?
Underpinning Houston's land surface are unconsolidated clays, clay shales, and poorly cemented sands up to several miles deep	What materials are underpinning the land surface of Houston?
In the 1960s, Downtown Houston consisted of a collection of mid-rise office structures	Downtown Houston consisted of what type of building in the 1960's?
"within the Category of ""Best Places for Business and Careers"" by Forbes magazine"	Houston ranked 3rd in which category by Forbes magazine in 2006?
The largest and longest running is the annual Houston Livestock Show and Rodeo, held over 20 days from early to late March, is the largest annual livestock show and rodeo in the world	What is the largest annual event held in Houston?
cities, Houston has the most total area of parks and green space, 56,405 acres 	What does Houston have the most of compared to other large US cities?
The current mayor of Houston is Sylvester Turner, a Democrat elected on a nonpartisan ballot	Who is the current mayor of Houston?
KUHT is a PBS member station and is the first public television station in the United States	What was the first public television station in the US?
Houston is the most populous city in Texas and the fourth most populous city in the United States, located in Southeast Texas near the Gulf of Mexico	Where is Houston located?
By 1860, Houston had emerged as a commercial and railroad hub for the export of cotton	What commodity was Houston known for in 1860? 
In August 2005, Houston became a shelter to more than 150,000 people from New Orleans who evacuated from Hurricane Katrina	How many people evacuated to Houston after Hurricane Katrina?
Though Houston is the largest city in the United States without formal zoning regulations, it has developed similarly to other Sun Belt cities because the city's land use regulations and legal covenants have played a similar role	What is the largest city in the U.S. without formal zoning?
The Houston area is a leading center for building oilfield equipment	Of what is Houston a center?
The Houston Theater District, located downtown, is home to nine major performing arts organizations and six performance halls	What area of Houston hosts performing arts?
The Theater District is a 17-block area in the center of downtown Houston that is home to the Bayou Place entertainment complex, restaurants, movies, plazas, and parks	How much area of downtown Houston does the Theater District cover?
Minute Maid Park and Toyota Center , are located in downtown Houston	What is the name of the stadium that hosts the Houston Astros?
Thomas, Houston's only Catholic university, to Rice University, the nationally recognized research university—are located within the city	What famous research university is located in Houston?
Houston is the seat of the internationally renowned Texas Medical Center, which contains the world's largest concentration of research and healthcare institutions	Where in Houston is the world's largest grouping of healthcare institutions?
Houston was the headquarters of Continental Airlines until its 2010 merger with United Airlines with headquarters in Chicago; regulatory approval for the merger was granted in October of that year	Until 2010, which airline made Houston its headquarters?
It is also leading in health care sectors and building oilfield equipment; only New York City is home to more Fortune 500 headquarters within its city limits	What city has more Fortune 500 headquarters than Houston?
Houston has mild winters in contrast to most areas of the United States	What kind of winter weather does Houston have?
13 billion in total economic benefit and 24,000 local jobs generated	How many local jobs are produced by the University of Houston?
Houston was founded in 1836 on land near the banks of Buffalo Bayou and incorporated as a city on June 5, 1837	When was Houston founded?
Located in the American South, Houston is a diverse city with a large and growing international community	In what part of the United States is Houston located?
In 1900, after Galveston was struck by a devastating hurricane, efforts to make Houston into a viable deep-water port were accelerated	What event caused an increase in effort to promote the Houston port?
Most of Houston is located on the gulf coastal plain, and its vegetation is classified as temperate grassland and forest	In what topography is Houston located?
However, humidity usually yields a higher heat index	What weather factor produces a higher heat index?
Houston is considered to be a politically divided city whose balance of power often sways between Republicans and Democrats	What is the political climate of Houston?
According to the 2010 Census, whites made up 51% of Houston's population; 26% of the total population were non-Hispanic whites	How much of Houston's population is white?
The Houston–The Woodlands–Sugar Land MSA's gross domestic product in 2012 was $489 billion, making it the fourth-largest of any metropolitan area in the United States and larger than Austria's, Venezuela's, or South Africa's GDP	What was Houston's gross domestic product in 2012?
The Baylor College of Medicine has annually been considered within the top ten medical schools in the nation; likewise, the MD Anderson Cancer Center has consistently ranked as one of the top two U	What Houston medical school ranks in the top ten U.S. medical schools?
In 2013, Houston was identified as the #1 U	Where did Houston rank for job creation in 2013?
Three community college districts exist with campuses in and around Houston	How many community colleges serve Houston?
METRO began light rail service on January 1, 2004, with the inaugural track running about 8 miles from the University of Houston–Downtown , which traverses through the Texas Medical Center and terminates at NRG Park	When did Houston start using light rail lines?
Hobby Airport which operates primarily short- to medium-haul domestic flights	What was the earlier name of Hobby Airport?
The Houston area has over 150 active faults with an aggregate length of up to 310 miles , including the Long Point–Eureka Heights fault system which runs through the center of the city	How many estimated active faults does Houston have?
Houston was incorporated in 1837 under the ward system of representation	What system of incorporation was used in 1837 by Houston?
Centered on Post Oak Boulevard and Westheimer Road, the Uptown District boomed during the 1970s and early 1980s when a collection of mid-rise office buildings, hotels, and retail developments appeared along Interstate 610 west	What area is located at Post Oak Boulevard and Westheimer Road?
Houston is recognized worldwide for its energy industry—particularly for oil and natural gas—as well as for biomedical research and aeronautics	Besides oil and gas, what is Houston known for?
In 2008, Houston received top ranking on Kiplinger's Personal Finance Best Cities of 2008 list, which ranks cities on their local economy, employment opportunities, reasonable living costs, and quality of life	How did Kiplinger's Personal Finance Best Cities rate Houston?
Houston has sports teams for every major professional league except the National Hockey League 	For which sports team category does Houston not have a team ?
The original city council line-up of 14 members was based on a U	How many members did the original Houston city council have?
Four separate and distinct state universities are located in Houston	How many separate universities does Houston have?
Houston is served by the Houston Chronicle, its only major daily newspaper with wide distribution	What is Houston's major newspaper?
Houston's highway system has a hub-and-spoke freeway structure serviced by multiple loops	What is the type of freeway system that serves Houston?
The primary city airport is George Bush Intercontinental Airport , the tenth-busiest in the United States for total passengers, and twenty eighth-busiest worldwide	How does Houston's George Bush Intercontinental Airport rank for number of passengers?
In the Roman era, copper was principally mined on Cyprus, the origin of the name of the metal from aes сyprium , later corrupted to сuprum, from which the words copper , cuivre , Koper and Kupfer are all derived	Where was copper mostly mined at in the Roman era?
It has a history of use that is at least 10,000 years old, and estimates of its discovery place it at 9000 BC in the Middle East; a copper pendant was found in northern Iraq that dates to 8700 BC	When was copper first known to have been used?
The gates of the Temple of Jerusalem used Corinthian bronze made by depletion gilding	What material were the gates of the Temple of Jerusalem made from?
Despite competition from other materials, copper remains the preferred electrical conductor in nearly all categories of electrical wiring with the major exception being overhead electric power transmission where aluminium is often preferred	What metal is used most often in electrical wiring?
Copper is biostatic, meaning bacteria will not grow on it	What word means that bacteria won't grow on a substrate?
Copper, silver and gold are in group 11 of the periodic table, and they share certain attributes: they have one s-orbital electron on top of a filled d-electron shell and are characterized by high ductility and electrical conductivity	What group of the periodic table is copper in?
Copper is synthesized in massive stars and is present in the Earth's crust at a concentration of about 50 parts per million , where it occurs as native copper or in minerals such as the copper sulfides chalcopyrite and chalcocite, the copper carbonates azurite and malachite, and the copper oxide mineral cuprite	What is the concentration of copper in the earths crust.
In Greece, copper was known by the name chalkos 	What was copper called in Greece?
Compounds that contain a carbon-copper bond are known as organocopper compounds	What are compounds that have a carbon-copper bond called?
The uses of copper in art were not limited to currency: it was used by Renaissance sculptors, in photographic technology known as the daguerreotype, and the Statue of Liberty	Who used copper to produce art?
Copper's greater conductivity versus other metals enhances the electrical energy efficiency of motors	What property of copper increases the efficiency of electrical motors?
Chromobacterium violaceum and Pseudomonas fluorescens can both mobilize solid copper, as a cyanide compound	Name a compond that can mobilize sold copper?
"The United States Environmental Protection Agency has approved the registrations of these copper alloys as ""antimicrobial materials with public health benefits,"" which allows manufacturers to legally make claims as to the positive public health benefits of products made with registered antimicrobial copper alloys"	What is an intrinsic property of copper-alloy touch surfaces?
Copper compounds in liquid form are used as a wood preservative, particularly in treating original portion of structures during restoration of damage due to dry rot	What are copper compounds in liquid form used for?
Copper has been in use at least 10,000 years, but more than 95% of all copper ever mined and smelted has been extracted since 1900, and more than half was extracted in only the last 24 years	How long has copper been in use?
Romans in the 6th through 3rd centuries BC used copper lumps as money	What did Romans use as money in the 6th through 3rd centuriesBC?
The major applications of copper are in electrical wires , roofing and plumbing and industrial machinery 	What percentage of copper is used in electrical wires?
The softness of copper partly explains its high electrical conductivity (59	What is the explanation for copper's capacity for electrical conductivity?
Most copper is mined or extracted as copper sulfides from large open pit mines in porphyry copper deposits that contain 0	In what form is copper extracted?
Like aluminium, copper is 100% recyclable without any loss of quality, regardless of whether it is in a raw state or contained in a manufactured product	What percent of copper is recyclable?
The metal's distinctive natural green patina has long been coveted by architects and designers	What pigment color is natural to copper?
Gram quantities of various copper salts have been taken in suicide attempts and produced acute copper toxicity in humans, possibly due to redox cycling and the generation of reactive oxygen species that damage DNA	What are copper salts sometimes used for?
Britain's first use of brass occurred around the 3rd–2nd century BC	When did Britain first use brass?
There are 29 isotopes of copper	How many isotopes are there of copper?
The alloy of copper and nickel, called cupronickel, is used in low-denomination coins, often for the outer cladding	What is the alloy of copper and nickel called?
Polyols, compounds containing more than one alcohol functional group, generally interact with cupric salts	What is the name of the componds that has more than one alcohol functional group?
"Alloying copper with tin to make bronze was first practiced about 4000 years after the discovery of copper smelting, and about 2000 years after ""natural bronze"" had come into general use"	What started about 4000 years after copper smelting was discovered?
Copper is absorbed in the gut, then transported to the liver bound to albumin	How is copper absorbed in humans?
6%, and most commercial ores are sulfides, especially chalcopyrite and to a lesser extent chalcocite 	What are most commercial ores?
Together with caesium and gold , and osmium , copper is one of only four elemental metals with a natural color other than gray or silver	How many metals have a natural color that isn't gray?
Copper has been used since ancient times as a durable, corrosion resistant, and weatherproof architectural material	What has copper been used for since ancient times?
A psychological identity relates to self-image , self-esteem, and individuality	Self-image, self-esteem, and individuality relate to what?
"The description or representation of individual and group identity is a central task for psychologists, sociologists and anthropologists and those of other disciplines where ""identity"" needs to be mapped and defined"	The central task for psychologists, sociologists, and anthropologists is to describe what topics?
Weinreich's identity variant similarly includes the categories of identity diffusion, foreclosure and crisis, but with a somewhat different emphasis	Identity diffusion, foreclosure, and crisis are categories of what?
Anthropologists have contributed to the debate by shifting the focus of research: One of the first challenges for the researcher wishing to carry out empirical research in this area is to identify an appropriate analytical tool	What group has shifted the focus of research in identity?
The inclusiveness of Weinreich's definition directs attention to the totality of one's identity at a given phase in time, and assists in elucidating component aspects of one's total identity, such as one's gender identity, ethnic identity, occupational identity and so on	What are gender identity, ethnic identity, and occupational identity aspects of?
Although the self is distinct from identity, the literature of self-psychology can offer some insight into how identity is maintained (Cote & Levin 2002, p	What is distinct from the self?
At a general level, self-psychology is compelled to investigate the question of how the personal self relates to the social environment	Self-psychology is compelled to investigate how personal self relates to what?
Anthropologists have most frequently employed the term 'identity' to refer to this idea of selfhood in a loosely Eriksonian way properties based on the uniqueness and individuality which makes a person distinct from others	What term have Anthropologists employed to refer to the Eriksonian idea of selfhood?
Boundaries can be inclusive or exclusive depending on how they are perceived by other people	What are the two types of group boundaries?
"The ""Neo-Eriksonian"" identity status paradigm emerged in later years[when"	What identity status paradigm emerged due to the work of James Marcia?
Many people gain a sense of positive self-esteem from their identity groups, which furthers a sense of community and belonging	What do many people gain from their identity groups?
The first favours a primordialist approach which takes the sense of self and belonging to a collective group as a fixed thing, defined by objective criteria such as common ancestry and common biological characteristics	What approach takes the sense of self and belonging as a fixed thing?
] heavily utilizing the lens of identity to examine phenomena	Various research traditions are using what lens to examine phenomena?
However, the formation of one's identity occurs through one's identifications with significant others 	The formation of identity occurs through identifications with whom?
A person may display either relative weakness or relative strength in terms of both exploration and commitments	What may a person display in terms of both exploration and commitments?
Since identity is a virtual thing, it is impossible to define it empirically	What is it impossible to do with identity?
Gender identity forms an important part of identity in psychology, as it dictates to a significant degree how one views oneself both as a person and in relation to other people, ideas and nature	What is identified as determining how a person views him or herself to a significant degree?
Erik Erikson became one of the earliest psychologists to take an explicit interest in identity	Who was one of the earliest psychologists to take an explicit interest in identity?
Laing's definition of identity closely follows Erikson's, in emphasising the past, present and future components of the experienced self	Whose definition of identity closely follows Erikson's?
Kenneth Gergen formulated additional classifications, which include the strategic manipulator, the pastiche personality, and the relational self	Who formulated the classifications of strategic manipulator, pastiche personality and the relational self?
As a non-directive and flexible analytical tool, the concept of boundaries helps both to map and to define the changeability and mutability that are characteristic of people's experiences of the self in society	What concept helps map and define people's experiences of self in society?
The economy of Himachal Pradesh is currently the third-fastest growing economy in India	What is the third fastest growing economy in India?
came into being on 15 April 1948 as a result of integration of 28 petty princely states in the promontories of the western Himalaya, known in full as the Simla Hills States and four Punjab southern hill states by issue of the Himachal Pradesh Order, 1948 under Sections 3 and 4 of the Extra-Provincial Jurisdiction Act, 1947 (later renamed as the Foreign Jurisdiction Act, 1947 vide A	When did the Chief Commissioners Province of HP come into being?
In the assembly elections held in November 2012, the Congress secured an absolute majority	When did Congress secure an absolute majority?
Himachal is extremely rich in hydro electric resources	Himachal is extremely rich in?
The state is well known for its handicrafts	What is the state well known for?
Tribes such as the Koilis, Halis, Dagis, Dhaugris, Dasa, Khasas, Kinnars, and Kirats inhabited the region from the prehistoric era	What tribes inhibited the area that now constitutes Himachal Pradesh?
Himachal has a rich heritage of handicrafts	What does Himachal have a rich heritage of?
A district of Himachal Pradesh is an administrative geographical unit, headed by a Deputy Commissioner or District Magistrate, an officer belonging to the Indian Administrative Service	Who heads the Himachal Pradesh?
The era of planning in Himachal Pradesh started 1948 along with the rest of India	When did the era of planning start in Himachal Pradesh?
Census-wise, the state is placed 21st on the population chart, followed by Tripura at 22nd place	Where did the state place on population chart?
Other religions that form a small percentage are Buddhism and Sikhism	What other religions form a small percentage?
The Gurkhas, a martial tribe, came to power in Nepal in the year 1768	When did the Gurkhas come into power?
Due to extreme variation in elevation, great variation occurs in the climatic conditions of Himachal	What occurs in the climatic conditions of Himachal?
The legislature consists of elected members and special office bearers such as the Speaker and the Deputy Speaker who are elected by the members	What does the Himachal legislature consist of?
Railway Himachal is famous for its narrow gauge tracks railways, one is UNESCO World Heritage Kalka-Shimla Railway and another one is Pathankot–Jogindernagar	What is Railway Himachal famous for?
Himachal Pradesh is famous for its abundant natural beauty	Who is famous for natural beauty?
Though situated in a remote part of the country, Himachal Pradesh has an active community of journalists and publishers	Who has an active community of journalists and publishers?
In 2003, the state legislative assembly was won by the Indian National Congress and Virbhadra Singh was elected as the chief minister of the state	Who was elected as chief minister of the state of India?
Though the state is deficient in food grains, it has gained a lot in other spheres of agricultural production such as seed potato, ginger, vegetables, vegetable seeds, mushrooms, chicory seeds, hops, olives and fig	What type of agriculture is in the state?
Himachal was one of the few states that had remained largely untouched by external customs, largely due to its difficult terrain	Who was largely untouched by external customs?
Further, state-run Jawaharlal Nehru Government Engineering College started in 2006 at Sundernagar	When was the state run Nehru Government Engineering College started?
Doordarshan is the state-owned television broadcaster	What is Doordarshan?
Himachal Pradesh is spread across valleys, and 90% of the population lives in villages and towns	Where do 90% of the population live in Himachal Pradesh?
Nonverbal communication describes the process of conveying meaning in the form of non-word messages	What is nonverbal communication?
Fungi communicate to coordinate and organize their growth and development such as the formation of Marcelia and fruiting bodies	Why do fungi communicate?
Communication is usually described along a few major dimensions: Message , source / emisor / sender / encoder , form , channel , destination / receiver / target / decoder , and Receiver	What is one dimension that communication is typically described along?
Human language can be defined as a system of symbols and the grammars by which the symbols are manipulated	What is human communication defined as?
Family communication study looks at topics such as family rules, family roles or family dialectics and how those factors could affect the communication between family members	What is some factors in family communication that could affect communication between family members?
Animal communication can be defined as any behavior of one animal that affects the current or future behavior of another animal	How is animal communication defined?
The first major model for communication was introduced by Claude Shannon and Warren Weaver for Bell Laboratories in 1949 The original model was designed to mirror the functioning of radio and telephone technologies	Who introduced the first major model for communication in 1949?
In a simple model, often referred to as the transmission model or standard view of communication, information or content (e	A simple model is also referred to as what?
In a slightly more complex form a sender and a receiver are linked reciprocally	How are the sender and receiver connected in a slightly more complex form of communication model?
within plant cells and between plant cells, between plants of the same or related species, and between plants and non-plant organisms, especially in the root zone	What is a form of communication observed within plants?
Theories of coregulation describe communication as a creative and dynamic continuous process, rather than a discrete exchange of information	What describes communication as creative and dynamic rather than discrete?
Since it is difficult to develop such a broad range of skills, communications professionals often specialize in one or two of these areas but usually have at least a working knowledge of most of them	Why do communications professionals typically specialize in only one or two areas of communication?
Grapes are a type of fruit that grow in clusters of 15 to 300, and can be crimson, black, dark blue, yellow, green, orange, and pink	What color are white grapes?
The cultivation of the domesticated grape began 6,000–8,000 years ago in the Near East	How long ago were grapes first cultivated?
Comparing diets among Western countries, researchers have discovered that although the French tend to eat higher levels of animal fat, the incidence of heart disease remains low in France	What do people in France eat more of that in most western countries?
Grape juice is obtained from crushing and blending grapes into a liquid	What juice is made when grapes are crushed and blended?
Red wine may offer health benefits more so than white because potentially beneficial compounds are present in grape skin, and only red wine is fermented with skins	What type of wine is fermented with grape skin?
Commercially cultivated grapes can usually be classified as either table or wine grapes, based on their intended method of consumption: eaten raw or used to make wine 	What are grapes that are eaten raw classified as?
In the Bible, grapes are first mentioned when Noah grows them on his farm 	When are grapes first mentioned in the Bible?
There are several sources of the seedlessness trait, and essentially all commercial cultivators get it from one of three sources: Thompson Seedless, Russian Seedless, and Black Monukka, all being cultivars of Vitis vinifera	How many seedless grape sources are there for commercial cultivators? 
Anthocyanins tend to be the main polyphenolics in purple grapes whereas flavan-3-ols (i	What are the most abundant polyphenolics in purple grapes?
The Catholic Church uses wine in the celebration of the Eucharist because it is part of the tradition passed down through the ages starting with Jesus Christ at the Last Supper, where Catholics believe the consecrated bread and wine literally become the body and blood of Jesus Christ, a dogma known as transubstantiation	What church uses wine to celebrate the Eucharist?
It includes controlling physical access to the hardware, as well as protecting against harm that may come via network access, data and code injection, and due to malpractice by operators, whether intentional, accidental, or due to them being tricked into deviating from secure procedures	What must an operator deviate from to harm the computer?
Denial of service attacks are designed to make a machine or network resource unavailable to its intended users	What are attacks designed to make a machine or network unavailable to its intended users?
Researchers in 2011 were even able to use a malicious compact disc in a car's stereo system as a successful attack vector, and cars with built-in voice recognition or remote assistance features have onboard microphones which could be used for eavesdropping	What were researchers in 2011 able to use as a successful attack vector?
However, relatively few organisations maintain computer systems with effective detection systems, and fewer still have organised response mechanisms in place	How many organisations are estimated to maintain computer systems with effective detection systems?
"One use of the term ""computer security"" refers to technology that is used to implement secure operating systems"	Technology that is used to implement secure operating systems is one use of what term?
China's network security and information technology leadership team was established February 27, 2014	When was Chine's network security and information technology leadership team established?
Eavesdropping is the act of surreptitiously listening to a private conversation, typically between hosts on a network	What is the act of surreptitiously listening to a private conversation?
Desktop computers and laptops are commonly infected with malware either to gather passwords or financial account information, or to construct a botnet to attack another target	What are desktop computers and laptops commonly infected with?
Within computer systems, two of many security models capable of enforcing privilege separation are access control lists and capability-based security	What does ACL stand for?
In 1994, over a hundred intrusions were made by unidentified crackers into the Rome Laboratory, the US Air Force's main command and research facility	In what year did over a hundred intrusions made into the Rome Laboraroty?
"In July of 2015, a hacker group known as ""The Impact Team"" successfully breached the extramarital relationship website Ashley Madison"	When did The Impact Team successfully breach Ashley Madison?
Many government officials and experts think that the government should step in and that there is a crucial need for regulation, mainly due to the failure of the private sector to solve efficiently the cybersecurity problem	According to goverment officials, what has the failure of the private sector to solve efficiently the cybersecurity problem created?
On October 3, 2010, Public Safety Canada unveiled Canada’s Cyber Security Strategy, following a Speech from the Throne commitment to boost the security of Canadian cyberspace	When did Public Safety Canada unveil Canada's Cyber Security Strategy?
The Internet is a potential attack vector for such machines if connected, but the Stuxnet worm demonstrated that even equipment controlled by computers not connected to the Internet can be vulnerable to physical damage caused by malicious commands sent to industrial equipment which are infected via removable media	What is a potential attack vector for utilities such as the power grid?
"Today, computer security comprises mainly ""preventive"" measures, like firewalls or an exit procedure"	Firewalls and exit procedures are considered what?
Serious financial damage has been caused by security breaches, but because there is no standard model for estimating the cost of an incident, the only data available is that which is made public by the organizations involved	What has caused serious financial damage?
While hardware may be a source of insecurity, such as with microchip vulnerabilities maliciously introduced during the manufacturing process, hardware-based or assisted computer security also offers an alternative to software-only computer security	Microchips vulnerabilities are introduced when?
Public Safety Canada’s Canadian Cyber Incident Response Centre is responsible for mitigating and responding to threats to Canada’s critical infrastructure and cyber systems	What does CCIRC stand for?
"As Jay Cross, the chief scientist of the Internet Time Group, remarked, ""Connectedness begets vulnerability"	"Who said ""Connectedness begets vulnerability?"""
On September 27, 2010, Public Safety Canada partnered with STOP	When did Public Safety Canada partner with Stop.Think. Connect?
They may also compromise security by making operating system modifications, installing software worms, keyloggers, or covert listening devices	Installing keyloggers and making operating system modifications are examples of ways unauthorized users for what?
"Clickjacking, also known as ""UI redress attack or User Interface redress attack"", is a malicious technique in which an attacker tricks a user into clicking on a button or link on another webpage while the user intended to click on the top level page"	UI redress attack or User Interface redress attack is also known as what?
In 1988, only 60,000 computers were connected to the Internet, and most were mainframes, minicomputers and professional workstations	How many computers were connected to the internet in 1988?
"In 2013 and 2014, a Russian/Ukrainian hacking ring known as ""Rescator"" broke into Target Corporation computers in 2013, stealing roughly 40 million credit cards, and then Home Depot computers in 2014, stealing between 53 and 56 million credit card numbers"	Who are Rescator?
Berlin starts National Cyber Defense Initiative: On June 16, 2011, the German Minister for Home Affairs, officially opened the new German NCAZ Nationales Cyber-Abwehrzentrum located in Bonn	What does NCAZ stand for?
Orthodox Judaism is the approach to religious Judaism which subscribes to a tradition of mass revelation and adheres to the interpretation and application of the laws and ethics of the Torah as legislated in the Talmudic texts by the Tanaim and Amoraim	What is the approach to Judiasm that subscribes to a tradition of mass revelation?
"According to the New Jersey Press Association, several media entities refrain from using the term ""ultra-Orthodox"", including the Religion Newswriters Association; JTA, the global Jewish news service; and the Star-Ledger, New Jersey’s largest daily newspaper"	What is the global Jewish news service known as?
Modern Orthodoxy comprises a fairly broad spectrum of movements, each drawing on several distinct though related philosophies, which in some combination have provided the basis for all variations of the movement today	What is the name of the movement that comporises a fairly broad spectrum of distinct but related philosophies? 
Orthodox women dress modestly by keeping most of their skin covered	How do orthodox women dress mosly?
"Orthodox Judaism holds that the words of the Torah, including both the Written Law and those parts of the Oral Law which are ""halacha leMoshe m'Sinai"", were dictated by God to Moses essentially as they exist today"	What is the written law of the Torah known as?
In later years it was Rav Ettlinger's students Rabbi Samson Raphael Hirsch and Rabbi Azriel Hildesheimer of Berlin who deepened the awareness and strength of Orthodox Jewry	Where was Rabbi Azriel Hildesheimer from?
"For example, the now-widespread haredi tradition of cutting a boy's hair for the first time on his third birthday ""originated as an Arab custom that parents cut a newborn boy's hair and burned it in a fire as a sacrifice,"" and ""Jews in Palestine learned this custom from Arabs and adapted it to a special Jewish context"	When is a newborn boy's hair first cut?
Haredi Judaism advocates segregation from non-Jewish culture, although not from non-Jewish society entirely	What type of Judaism advocated segregation from non-Jewish culture?
Orthodox Judaism holds that on Mount Sinai, the Written Law was transmitted along with an Oral Law	Where was the written law and the oral law transmitted?
Orthodox Judaism maintains the historical understanding of Jewish identity	What maintains a historical understanding of jewish Identity?
However, there is significant disagreement within Orthodox Judaism, particularly between Haredi Judaism and Modern Orthodox Judaism, about the extent and circumstances under which the proper application of Halakha should be re-examined as a result of changing realities	What do haredi Judaism and modern orthodox Judaism disagree about the application of?
According to Orthodox Judaism, Jewish law today is based on the commandments in the Torah, as viewed through the discussions and debates contained in classical rabbinic literature, especially the Mishnah and the Talmud	What is jewish law today based on?
Hasidic or Chasidic Judaism overlaps significantly with Haredi Judaism in its engagement with the secular and commercial world, and in regard to social issues	What overlaps significantly with Hasidic Judiasm?
9 children per family among non-Orthodox Jews, and intermarriage among Orthodox Jews is practically non-existent, standing at about 2%, in contrast to a 71% intermarriage rate among non-Orthodox Jews	What is the rate of intermarriage among orthodox Jews?
On the other hand, Orthodox Jews subscribing to Modern Orthodoxy in its American and UK incarnations, tend to be far more right-wing than both non-orthodox and other orthodox Jews	Orthodox Jews subsciribing to modern orthodoxy tend to be what political alignment typically?
Modern Orthodoxy, as a stream of Orthodox Judaism represented by institutions such as the U	What does the US national council for Young Isreal represent?
Rather, the Orthodox community, as a counterreaction to the liberalism of the Haskalah movement, began to embrace far more stringent halachic practices than their predecessors, most notably in matters of Kashrut and Passover dietary laws, where the strictest possible interpretation becomes a religious requirement, even where the Talmud explicitly prefers a more lenient position, and even where a more lenient position was practiced by prior generations	what is the name of the movement of liberalism?
The roots of Orthodox Judaism can be traced to the late 18th or early 19th century, when elements within German Jewry sought to reform Jewish belief and practice in the early 19th century in response to the Age of Enlightenment, Jewish Emancipation, and Haskalah	When can the roots of orthodox judaism be traced to?
Politically, Orthodox Jews, given their variety of movements and affiliations, tend not to conform easily to the standard left-right political spectrum, with one of the key differences between the movements stemming from the groups' attitudes to Zionism	What do orthodox Jews express ambivalence towards?
Some scholars estimate more Jewish men are studying in yeshivot and Kollelim students) than at any other time in history	Tamudic schools are known as what?
Orthodox Judaism collectively considers itself the only true heir to the Jewish tradition	What considers itself the only true heir to the Jewish tradition?
Although sizable Orthodox Jewish communities are located throughout the United States, many American Orthodox Jews live in New York State, particularly in the New York City Metropolitan Area	Where do many American Orthodox Jews live?
Some scholars believe that Modern Orthodoxy arose from the religious and social realities of Western European Jewry	Who did the modern orthodoxy arise from?
For guidance in practical application of Jewish law, the majority of Orthodox Jews appeal to the Shulchan Aruch together with its surrounding commentaries	What do Orthodox Jews turn to for guidance and practical application of jewish law?
Hirsch held the opinion that Judaism demands an application of Torah thought to the entire realm of human experience, including the secular disciplines	Who held the opinion that judiasm demands and application of torah thought to the entire realm of human experience?
"The word ""animal"" comes from the Latin animalis, meaning having breath, having soul or living being"	Where does the word animal come from?
All animals have eukaryotic cells, surrounded by a characteristic extracellular matrix composed of collagen and elastic glycoproteins	What type of cells do all animals have?
Predation is a biological interaction where a predator feeds on its prey 	What is the biological interaction where a predator feeds on its prey called?
Among the other phyla, the Ctenophora and the Cnidaria, which includes sea anemones, corals, and jellyfish, are radially symmetric and have digestive chambers with a single opening, which serves as both the mouth and the anus	Ctenophora and the Cnidaria include what sea creatures?
Animals are eukaryotic and multicellular, which separates them from bacteria and most protists	What sets animals apart from bacteria and most protists?
A zygote initially develops into a hollow sphere, called a blastula, which undergoes rearrangement and differentiation	What is the hollow sphere that a zygote initially develops into called?
Some paleontologists suggest that animals appeared much earlier than the Cambrian explosion, possibly as early as 1 billion years ago	How long ago do some paleontologists believe that animals first appeared?
Animals are generally considered to have evolved from a flagellated eukaryote	It is believed that animals evolved from what?
The remaining animals form a monophyletic group called the Bilateria	What is the group of animals that often have a specialized head with feeding and sensory organs called?
"Traditional morphological and modern molecular phylogenetic analysis have both recognized a major evolutionary transition from ""non-bilaterian"" animals, which are those lacking a bilaterally symmetric body plan , to ""bilaterian"" animals whose body plans display bilateral symmetry"	What are some examples of non-bilaterian animals?
The Ecdysozoa are protostomes, named after the common trait of growth by moulting or ecdysis	What groups is named after the trait of growth by moulting or ecdysis?
Because of the great diversity found in animals, it is more economical for scientists to study a small number of chosen species so that connections can be drawn from their work and conclusions extrapolated about how animals function in general	Why is it more economical for scientists to study a small number of species?
The Lophotrochozoa, evolved within Protostomia, include two of the most successful animal phyla, the Mollusca and Annelida	What are two of the most successful animal phyla?
Several animal phyla are recognized for their lack of bilateral symmetry, and are thought to have diverged from other animals early in evolution	Animal phyla that are recognized for their lack of bilateral symmetry are thought to have come from where?
Animals from both groups possess a complete digestive tract	What do deuterostomes and protostomes have in common?
The Platyzoa include the phylum Platyhelminthes, the flatworms	What is another name for flatworm?
Most animals indirectly use the energy of sunlight by eating plants or plant-eating animals	How do most animals use the energy of sunlight?
The process of making beer is known as brewing	What is the process of making beer called?
In some breweries, the hopped wort may pass through a hopback, which is a small vat filled with hops, to add aromatic hop flavouring and to act as a filter; but usually the hopped wort is simply cooled for the fermenter, where the yeast is added	In breweries, what do you call a small vat that is filled with hops?
Nearly all beer includes barley malt as the majority of the starch	What is the main source of starch and most beer?
A microbrewery, or craft brewery, produces a limited amount of beer	What is a brewery called that makes a small amount of beer?
The alcohol in beer comes primarily from the metabolism of sugars that are produced during fermentation	What is the main source of the alcohol in beer?
Cask-conditioned ales are unfiltered and unpasteurised beers	What would you call a beer that has not been filtered or pasteurized?
Beer contains ethyl alcohol, the same chemical that is present in wine and distilled spirits and as such, beer consumption has short-term psychological and physiological effects on the user	What type of alcohol is found in beer?
Beer is sold in bottles and cans; it may also be available on draught, particularly in pubs and bars	What types of containers is beer generally sold in?
Beer is composed mostly of water	What is the main ingredient in beer?
In 1516, William IV, Duke of Bavaria, adopted the Reinheitsgebot , perhaps the oldest food-quality regulation still in use in the 21st century, according to which the only allowed ingredients of beer are water, hops and barley-malt	In what year did William IV adopt a purity law pertaining to beer?
Hops contain several characteristics that brewers desire in beer	What is the main cause for the bitterness in beer?
"The first step, where the wort is prepared by mixing the starch source with hot water, is known as ""mashing"""	What is the first step of brewing when malted barley is mixed with hot water?
The basic ingredients of beer are water; a starch source, such as malted barley, able to be saccharified then fermented ; a brewer's yeast to produce the fermentation; and a flavouring such as hops	What causes fermentation during the brewing process when making a beer?
The first historical mention of the use of hops in beer was from 822 AD in monastery rules written by Adalhard the Elder, also known as Adalard of Corbie, though the date normally given for widespread cultivation of hops for use in beer is the thirteenth century	In what year were hops first known to be used in beer?
The name Porter was first used in 1721 to describe a dark brown beer popular with the street and river porters of London	In what year was the name Porter first used for a dark beer?
A technology developed by Crown Holdings for the 2010 FIFA World Cup is the 'full aperture' can, so named because the entire lid is removed during the opening process, turning the can into a drinking cup	What company first created the full aperture can for beer?
The product claimed to be the strongest beer made is Schorschbräu's 2011 Schorschbock 57 with 57,5%	How much alcohol is in Schorschbock 57?
Glass bottles are always used for bottle conditioned beers	What kind of containers are used for bottle conditioned beers?
It is considered that overeating and lack of muscle tone is the main cause of a beer belly, rather than beer consumption	In addition to a lack of muscle tone, what is believed to be the main cause of the beer belly?
In Africa, there are various ethnic beers made from sorghum or millet, such as Oshikundu in Namibia and Tella in Ethiopia	What type of starch is used to make the beer Oshikundu?
The earliest known chemical evidence of barley beer dates to circa 3500–3100 BC from the site of Godin Tepe in the Zagros Mountains of western Iran	When does evidence show the earliest known barley beer was produced?
"The sweet wort collected from sparging is put into a kettle, or ""copper"" , and boiled, usually for about one hour"	What is a kettle called that is used to boil sweet wort after sparging?
The most common starch source used in beer is malted grain	What is generally used as starch in most beer?
More than 133 billion litres are sold per year—producing total global revenues of $294	How many liters of beer are bought and sold every year?
Beer ranges from less than 3% alcohol by volume to around 14% abv, though this strength can be increased to around 20% by re-pitching with champagne yeast, and to 55% abv by the freeze-distilling process	What does abv stand for?
Various social traditions and activities are associated with beer drinking, such as playing cards, darts, or other pub games; attending beer festivals; engaging in zythology ; visiting a series of pubs in one evening; visiting breweries; beer-oriented tourism; or rating beer	What is the term used for the study of beer?
Beer is the world's most widely consumed and likely the oldest alcoholic beverage; it is the third most popular drink overall, after water and tea	What is most popular alcoholic drink in the world?
What they did not contain was hops, as that was a later addition, first mentioned in Europe around 822 by a Carolingian Abbot and again in 1067 by Abbess Hildegard of Bingen	What year were hops first believed to be added to beer?
"The word ale comes from Old English ealu , in turn from Proto-Germanic *alu , ultimately from the Proto-Indo-European base *h₂elut-, which holds connotations of ""sorcery, magic, possession, intoxication"""	What is the origin of the word ale?
Vetter 33, a 10	What was the strongest beer in 1994 according to the Guinness Book of World Records?
Draught beer's environmental impact can be 68% lower than bottled beer due to packaging differences	What beer is better for the environment than bottled beer?
Drinking chilled beer began with the development of artificial refrigeration and by the 1870s, was spread in those countries that concentrated on brewing pale lager	What technology support the drinking of chilled beer?
The main active ingredient of beer is alcohol, and therefore, the health effects of alcohol apply to beer	What is beers primary active ingredient?
A study published in the Neuropsychopharmacology journal in 2013 revealed the finding that the flavour of beer alone could provoke dopamine activity in the brain of the male participants, who wanted to drink more as a result	What hormone can be triggered by the flavor of beer alone in males?
"Enumerators were instructed to no longer use the ""Mulatto"" classification"	What word was dropped as a racial classification in this year's census?
Race was asked differently in the Census 2000 in several other ways than previously	In what year were census respondents first able to select more than one race? 
"15, the American Anthropological Association recommended that OMB combine the ""race"" and ""ethnicity"" categories into one question to appear as ""race/ethnicity"" for the 2000 US Census"	What organization recommended that race and ethnicity categories be combined into one question for the 2000 US census?
""" OMB defines the concept of race as outlined for the U"	Who defines the concept of race in the United States Census?
"Thus, in addition to their race or races, all respondents are categorized by membership in one of two ethnic categories, which are ""Hispanic or Latino"" and ""Not Hispanic or Latino"""	How many ethnic categories are there in the US census?
"Roosevelt promoted a ""good neighbor"" policy that sought better relations with Mexico"	What country did President Frankiln Roosevelt have a good neighbor policy for in hopes of a better relationship?
In 1997, OMB issued a Federal Register notice regarding revisions to the standards for the classification of federal data on race and ethnicity	Who decided on the standards for the classification of race and ethnicity and federal data?
The 1850 census saw a dramatic shift in the way information about residents was collected	In what year were free persons first listed individually in the US census?
"Although used in the Census and the American Community Survey, ""Some other race"" is not an official race, and the Bureau considered eliminating it prior to the 2000 Census"	What race selection did the census bureau consider getting rid of before the 2000 census?
, enforcing bilingual election rules under the Voting Rights Act; monitoring and enforcing equal employment opportunities under the Civil Rights Act)	What act has rules and regulations for bilingual election? 
For 1890, the Census Office changed the design of the population questionnaire	In what year was the term race first used in the U.S. Census?
"The federal government of the United States has mandated that ""in data collection and presentation, federal agencies are required to use a minimum of two ethnicities: 'Hispanic or Latino' and 'Not Hispanic or Latino'"	How many ethnicities or federal agencies required to use in data collection?
dollar is based upon a decimal system of values	What is the US dollar based upon?
The symbol $, usually written before the numerical amount, is used for the U	Which symbol is used to represent the dollar?
$	Which symbol is used to represent the peso?
Though still predominantly green, post-2004 series incorporate other colors to better distinguish different denominations	What color was predominantly used?
"The Constitution of the United States of America provides that the United States Congress has the power ""To coin money"""	"Who has the power ""to coin money""?"
In the 16th century, Count Hieronymus Schlick of Bohemia began minting coins known as Joachimstalers , named for Joachimstal, the valley where the silver was mined (St	Who began minting the coins known as Joachimstalers?
The early currency of the United States did not exhibit faces of presidents, as is the custom now; although today, by law, only the portrait of a deceased individual may appear on United States currency	What condition does a person have to meet to be allowed by law on a coin?
The use of paper money not backed by precious metals had also occurred under the Articles of Confederation from 1777 to 1788	Which year was it when paper money was first issued without the backing of precious metals?
In February 2007, the U	In which year was the new $1 US Presidential coin introduced?
When the Federal Reserve makes a purchase, it credits the seller's reserve account 	"Who can create ""new high-powered money""?"
dollar declined significantly during wartime, especially during the American Civil War, World War I, and World War II	During which times does the value of the dollar typically decline?
There is ongoing debate about whether central banks should target zero inflation (which would mean a constant value for the U	What would zero inflation mean for the US dollar over time?
"In that context, ""dollars"" is a reference to the Spanish milled dollar, a coin that had a monetary value of 8 Spanish units of currency, or reales"	"What is ""dollars"" a reference to?"
"A ""grand"", sometimes shortened to simply ""G"", is a common term for the amount of $1,000"	"What is a ""grand"" sometimes shortened to?"
G	"What is a ""sawbuck"" sometimes shortened to?"
dollar was created by the Constitution and defined by the Coinage Act of 1792	What defined the US dollar?
The United States Mint produces Proof Sets specifically for collectors and speculators	What is specifically produced for collectors?
"The Constitution provides that ""a regular Statement and Account of the Receipts and Expenditures of all public Money shall be published from time to time"""	What dictates that a receipt for expenditures of all public money must be published?
Currently printed denominations are $1, $2, $5, $10, $20, $50, and $100	What is the highest currently printed denomination of bill?
"The colloquialism ""buck"" for the pound sterling) is often used to refer to dollars of various nations, including the U"	"What is the British equivalent of a ""buck""?"
dollar was therefore no longer anchored to gold, and it fell upon the Federal Reserve to maintain the value of the U	What was the value of the U.S. dollar no longer anchored to?
The dollar was first based on the value and look of the Spanish dollar, used widely in Spanish America from the 16th to the 19th centuries	What was the look of the dollar based on?
The Gold Standard Act of 1900 abandoned the bimetallic standard and defined the dollar as 23	What was the name of the act introduced in the year 1900?
Early releases of the Washington coin included error coins shipped primarily from the Philadelphia mint to Florida and Tennessee banks	Where did error coins originate?
"Constitution provides that Congress shall have the power to ""borrow money on the credit of the United States"""	What power was Congress given by the Constitution?
Usually, the short-term goal of open market operations is to achieve a specific short-term interest rate target	What is the short term goal of open market operations?
Under the Bretton Woods system established after World War II, the value of gold was fixed to $35 per ounce, and the value of the U	When was the Bretton Woods system established?
dollar is fiat money	What kind of money is the U.S. dollar?
Today, USD notes are made from cotton fiber paper, unlike most common paper, which is made of wood fiber	What are dollar notes made from now adays?
From 1792, when the Mint Act was passed, the dollar was defined as 371	When was the Mint Act passed?
Technically, all these coins are still legal tender at face value, though some are far more valuable today for their numismatic value, and for gold and silver coins, their precious metal value	What are gold and silver coins valuable for now adays?
Silver dollars were minted intermittently from 1794 through 1935; a copper-nickel dollar of the same large size, featuring President Dwight D	When were silver dollars first minted?
The monetary base consists of coins and Federal Reserve Notes in circulation outside the Federal Reserve Banks and the U	What do coins, Federal Reserve Notes and deposits held by despository institutions make up?
dollar corresponds to price inflation, which is a rise in the general level of prices of goods and services in an economy over a period of time	What does the decline in value of the dollar correspond to?
The Royal College of Chemistry was established by private subscription in 1845 as there was a growing awareness that practical aspects of the experimental sciences were not well taught and that in the United Kingdom the teaching of chemistry in particular had fallen behind that in Germany	When was the Royal College of Chemistry established?
City and Guilds College was founded in 1876 from a meeting of 16 of the City of London's livery companies for the Advancement of Technical Education , which aimed to improve the training of craftsmen, technicians, technologists, and engineers	When was the City and Guilds College founded?
In December 2005, Imperial announced a science park programme at the Wye campus, with extensive housing; however, this was abandoned in September 2006 following complaints that the proposal infringed on Areas of Outstanding Natural Beauty, and that the true scale of the scheme, which could have raised £110m for the College, was known to Kent and Ashford Councils and their consultants but concealed from the public	When did Imperial announce their science park program at the Wye Campus?
The College's endowment is sub-divided into three distinct portfolios: Unitised Scheme – a unit trust vehicle for College, Faculties and Departments to invest endowments and unfettered income to produce returns for the long term; Non-Core Property – a portfolio containing around 120 operational and developmental properties which College has determined are not core to the academic mission; and Strategic Asset Investments – containing College’s shareholding in Imperial Innovations and other restricted equity holdings	"What is a ""Unitised Scheme""?"
Imperial submitted a total of 1,257 staff across 14 units of assessment to the 2014 Research Excellence Framework assessment	How many staff members did Imperial submit assessments of for the REF assessment?
In September 2014, Professor Stefan Grimm, of the Department of Medicine, was found dead after being threatened with dismissal for failure to raise enough grant money	When was Professor Stefan Grimm found dead?
Imperial College Boat Club The Imperial College Boat Club was founded on 12 December 1919	Which day was the Imperial College Boat Club formed on?
The Royal School of Mines was established by Sir Henry de la Beche in 1851, developing from the Museum of Economic Geology, a collection of minerals, maps and mining equipment	What school was established in 1851?
In 2003 Imperial was granted degree-awarding powers in its own right by the Privy Council	Who granted Imperial degree-awarding powers?
Imperial's main campus is located in the South Kensington area of central London	In which area in London is Imperial's main campus located?
The Centre For Co-Curricular Studies provides elective subjects and language courses outside the field of science for students in the other faculties and departments	Which centre provides electives outside of science for students?
Furthermore, in terms of job prospects, as of 2014 the average starting salary of an Imperial graduate was the highest of any UK university	What statistic did the average Imperial graduate rank the highest in for 2014?
Imperial College TV ICTV ) is Imperial College Union's TV station, founded in 1969 and operated from a small TV studio in the Electrical Engineering block	What does the abbreviation STOIC stand for?
Wells, McLaren and Ferrari Chief Designer, Nicholas Tombazis, CEO of Rolls Royce, Ralph Robins, rock band Queen, Brian May, CEO of Singapore Airlines, Chew Choon Seng, Prime Minister of New Zealand, Julius Vogel, Prime Minister of India, Rajiv Gandhi, Deputy Prime Minister of Singapore, Teo Chee Hean, Chief Medical Officer for England, Sir Liam Donaldson, Head Physician to the Queen, Huw Thomas, CEO of Moonfruit, Wendy Tan White, Businessman and philanthropist, Winston Wong, billionaire hedge fund manager Alan Howard	Which famous automobile designer is considered a non - academic alumni?
The Great Exhibition was organised by Prince Albert, Henry Cole, Francis Fuller and other members of the Royal Society for the Encouragement of Arts, Manufactures and Commerce	Which society organized The Great Exhibition?
In 1907, the newly established Board of Education found that greater capacity for higher technical education was needed and a proposal to merge the City and Guilds College, the Royal School of Mines and the Royal College of Science was approved and passed, creating The Imperial College of Science and Technology as a constituent college of the University of London	Who proposed a merger of many colleges in 1907?
9 million from Funding Council grants (2011/12 – £172	Who granted Imperial close to 170 million pounds in grants?
In 1988 Imperial merged with St Mary's Hospital Medical School, becoming The Imperial College of Science, Technology and Medicine	In which year did Imperial merge with St Mary's Hospital Medical School?
The 2008 Research Assessment Exercise returned 26% of the 1225 staff submitted as being world-leading and a further 47% as being internationally excellent 	What percentage of Imperial's staff was classified as world leading in 2008?
Imperial College Healthcare NHS Trust was formed on 1 October 2007 by the merger of Hammersmith Hospitals NHS Trust and St Mary's NHS Trust (St	What was formed on the 1st October 2007?
"In 2003, it was reported that one third of female academics ""believe that discrimination or bullying by managers has held back their careers"""	What portion of females reported that they were held back by managers?
Imperial College Union, the students' union at Imperial College, is run by five full-time sabbatical officers elected from the student body for a tenure of one year, and a number of permanent members of staff	What is the official name of the student's union?
Imperial College London is a public research university located in London, United Kingdom	What kind of University is Imperial College London?
William Henry Perkin studied and worked at the college under von Hofmann, but resigned his position after discovering the first synthetic dye, mauveine, in 1856	Who discovered the first synthetic dye?
Imperial acquired Silwood Park in 1947, to provide a site for research and teaching in those aspects of biology not well suited for the main London campus	What site did Imperial acquire in 1947?
In 1636 George, Duke of Brunswick-Lüneburg, ruler of the Brunswick-Lüneburg principality of Calenberg, moved his residence to Hanover	Where did the Duke of Brunswick-Lüneburg move his residence to?
As an important railroad and road junction and production center, Hanover was a major target for strategic bombing during World War II, including the Oil Campaign	Other than for railroads and road junction, what did Hanover have that made it a major target?
The Hanover Zoo is one of the most spectacular and best zoos in Europe	Which zoo is one of the best in Europe?
Hanover's leading cabaret-stage is the GOP Variety theatre which is located in the Georgs Palace	What famous theatre is located in Georgs Palace?
The German spelling is becoming more popular in English; recent editions of encyclopedias prefer the German spelling, and the local government uses the German spelling on English websites	What does the German spelling of Hanover have that English does not?
After 1937 the Lord Mayor and the state commissioners of Hanover were members of the NSDAP 	What does the NSDAP stand for?
The Great Garden is an important European baroque garden	What kind of garden is The Great Garden?
Some other popular sights are the Waterloo Column, the Laves House, the Wangenheim Palace, the Lower Saxony State Archives, the Hanover Playhouse, the Kröpcke Clock, the Anzeiger Tower Block, the Administration Building of the NORD/LB, the Cupola Hall of the Congress Centre, the Lower Saxony Stock, the Ministry of Finance, the Garten Church, the Luther Church, the Gehry Tower (designed by the American architect Frank O	What nationality was the architect of the Gehry Tower?
But Hanover is not only one of the most important Exhibition Cities in the world, it is also one of the German capitals for marksmen	What is Hanover a German capital for?
The Schnellweg system, a number of Bundesstraße roads, forms a structure loosely resembling a large ring road together with A2 and A7	What is a Schnellweg?
In 1837, the personal union of the United Kingdom and Hanover ended because William IV's heir in the United Kingdom was female 	What ended in the year 1837?
"In September 1941, through the ""Action Lauterbacher"" plan, a ghettoisation of the remaining Hanoverian Jewish families began"	What plan was implemented in September 1941?
Hanover was founded in medieval times on the east bank of the River Leine	Where was Hanover originally founded?
After Napoleon imposed the Convention of Artlenburg on July 5, 1803, about 30,000 French soldiers occupied Hanover	Who imposed the Convention of Artlenburg?
The Berggarten is an important European botanical garden	What is the Berggarten?
The Volkswagen Commercial Vehicles Transporter factory at Hannover-Stöcken is the biggest employer in the region and operates a huge plant at the northern edge of town adjoining the Mittellandkanal and Motorway A2	What does VWN stand for?
Around 40 theatres are located in Hanover	How many theaters approximately are located in Hanover?
Hannover 96 is the top local football team that plays in the Bundesliga top division	"Who does the nicname ""Die Roten"" belong to?"
With a population of 518,000, Hanover is a major centre of Northern Germany and the country's thirteenth largest city	What is Hanover's population?
Another point of interest is the Old Town	Where are the large Martkirche located?
A cabinet of coins is the Münzkabinett der TUI-AG	What is the Münzkabinett der TUI-AG?
The physiology of emotion is closely linked to arousal of the nervous system with various states and strengths of arousal relating, apparently, to particular emotions	What system of the body is related to emotion's physiology?
"Robert Plutchik agreed with Ekman's biologically driven perspective but developed the ""wheel of emotions"", suggesting eight primary emotions grouped on a positive or negative basis: joy versus sadness; anger versus fear; trust versus disgust; and surprise versus anticipation"	What is the name of the theory Plutchik created?
Perspectives on emotions from evolutionary theory were initiated in the late 19th century with Charles Darwin's book The Expression of the Emotions in Man and Animals	What was the name of the book that Darwin wrote on emotions?
An example of this theory in action would be as follows: An emotion-evoking stimulus triggers a pattern of physiological response (increased heart rate, faster breathing, etc	In this theory, what action evokes an emotion?
One of the main proponents of this view was Richard Lazarus who argued that emotions must have some cognitive intentionality	Who argued that emotions arise from cognitive intentionality?
A recent hybrid of the somatic and cognitive theories of emotion is the perceptual theory	What theory argues that conceptual cognition is not required for emotional meaning?
In sociology, emotions are examined for the role they play in human society, social patterns and interactions, and culture	What discipline examines the role emotions play in culture?
, anger, pride, fear, happiness), physiological changes (e	Along with anger, pride and happiness, what is an example of an emotional label?
In the late 19th century, the most influential theorists were William James and Carl Lange 	Along with William James, who was an influential 19th century theorist?
Research on emotion has increased significantly over the past two decades with many fields contributing including psychology, neuroscience, endocrinology, medicine, history, sociology, and even computer science	Along with psychology, neuroscience, endocrinology, medicine, history and sociology, what field has engaged in research on emotion?
A distinction can be made between emotional episodes and emotional dispositions	What are emotional episodes defined in contrast to?
The idea that core affect is but one component of the emotion led to a theory called “psychological construction	What theory sees an emotional episode as consisting of components?
Walter Bradford Cannon agreed that physiological responses played a crucial role in emotions, but did not believe that physiological responses alone could explain subjective emotional experiences	Who argued that physiological responses were insufficient to explain emotional experiences?
Griffiths and Andrea Scarantino , emphasizes the importance of external factors in the development and communication of emotion, drawing upon the situationism approach in psychology	What factors did the situated perspective believe to be most important?
Pioneering work by Broca , Papez , and MacLean suggested that emotion is related to a group of structures in the center of the brain called the limbic system, which includes the hypothalamus, cingulate cortex, hippocampi, and other structures	When did Broca publish his pioneering work?
In philosophy, emotions are studied in sub-fields such as ethics, the philosophy of art , and the philosophy of music 	Along with the philosophies of music and art, what field of philosophy studies emotions?
Emilé Durkheim wrote about the collective effervescence or emotional energy that was experienced by members of totemic rituals in Australian aborigine society	Who discussed the idea of a collective effervescence?
Arnold , an American psychologist who developed the appraisal theory of emotions; Richard Lazarus , an American psychologist who specialized in emotion and stress, especially in relation to cognition; Herbert A	What theory was developed by Arnold?
"The word ""emotion"" dates back to 1579, when it was adapted from the French word émouvoir, which means ""to stir up"""	When did the word emotion enter the English language?
Bard found that sensory, motor, and physiological information all had to pass through the diencephalon , before being subjected to any further processing	What is the thalamus a part of?
Solomon 	In what year was The Passions, Emotions and the Meaning of Life published?
Emotional phenotype temperaments affect social connectedness and fitness in complex social systems 	Who researched the role of emotional phenotype temperaments on social connectedness?
Emotion is often intertwined with mood, temperament, personality, disposition, and motivation	Along with mood, temperament, disposition and motivation, what is emotion often tied to?
Psychotherapist Michael C	What is Michael Graham's profession?
For more than 40 years, Paul Ekman has supported the view that emotions are discrete, measurable, and physiologically distinct	Who has argued that emotions are discrete?
In stoic theories it was seen as a hindrance to reason and therefore a hindrance to virtue	What school of thought saw emotion as an impediment to virtue?
In his 1884 article William James argued that feelings and emotions were secondary to physiological phenomena	Who wrote that exciting facts lead to emotions?
Historians, like other social scientists, assume that emotions, feelings and their expressions are regulated in different ways by both different cultures and different historical times, and constructivist school of history claims even that some sentiments and meta-emotions, for example Schadenfreude, are learnt and not only regulated by culture	What historical school claims that sentiments and meta-emotions can be learned?
Stanley Schachter formulated his theory on the earlier work of a Spanish physician, Gregorio Marañón, who injected patients with epinephrine and subsequently asked them how they felt	Whose work did the theory of Stanley Schachter build on?
In the 1990s, sociologists focused on different aspects of specific emotions and how these emotions were socially relevant	In what decade did sociologists focus on the social relevance of emotion?
Emotion regulation refers to the cognitive and behavioral strategies people use to influence their own emotional experience	What is the term for the strategies used by people to influence their emotional experiences?
Based on discoveries made through neural mapping of the limbic system, the neurobiological explanation of human emotion is that emotion is a pleasant or unpleasant mental state organized in the limbic system of the mammalian brain	What system was examined to develop the neurobiological explanation of human emotion?
Human sciences study the role of emotions in mental processes, disorders, and neural mechanisms	What discipline studies the role of emotions in neural mechanisms?
Subsequent to these developments, Randall Collins formulated his interaction ritual theory by drawing on Durkheim's work on totemic rituals that was extended by Goffman into everyday focused encounters	Who came up with the interaction ritual theory?
In the 2000s, research in computer science, engineering, psychology and neuroscience has been aimed at developing devices that recognize human affect display and model emotions	Of what discipline is affective computing a branch?
Emotions involve different components, such as subjective experience, cognitive processes, expressive behavior, psychophysiological changes, and instrumental behavior	Along with subjective experience, cognitive processes, expressive behavior and psychophysiological changes, what is another notable emotional component?
In Scherer's components processing model of emotion, five crucial elements of emotion are said to exist	What model of emotion was developed by Scherer?
"Through the use of multidimensional scaling, psychologists can map out similar emotional experiences, which allows a visual depiction of the ""emotional distance"" between experiences"	What do psychologists use to visually map emotional experiences?
The increased potential in neuroimaging has also allowed investigation into evolutionarily ancient parts of the brain	What technology has allowed for research into the earlier-evolved parts of the brain?
Weiss and Russell Cropanzano , that looks at the causes, structures, and consequences of emotional experience 	When did Weiss and Cropanzano publish their work?
The motor centers of reptiles react to sensory cues of vision, sound, touch, chemical, gravity, and motion with pre-set body movements and programmed postures	What parts of reptiles respond to sensory cues?
This still left open the question of whether the opposite of approach in the prefrontal cortex is better described as moving away , as unmoving but with strength and resistance , or as unmoving with passive yielding 	What model described the opposite of approach as moving away?
In economics, the social science that studies the production, distribution, and consumption of goods and services, emotions are analyzed in some sub-fields of microeconomics, in order to assess the role of emotions on purchase decision-making and risk perception	In what economics sub-field are emotions discussed?
The emotion of anger is in many cultures discouraged in girls and women, while fear is discouraged in boys and men	What emotion do many cultures discourage in women?
Everton were founder members of the Premier League in 1992, but struggled to find the right manager	When was Everton admitted as a member of the Premier League?
The Tower has been inextricably linked with the Everton area since its construction in 1787	When was the Tower constructed?
"On matchdays, in a tradition going back to 1962, players walk out to the theme tune to Z-Cars, named ""Johnny Todd"", a traditional Liverpool children's song collected in 1890 by Frank Kidson which tells the story of a sailor betrayed by his lover while away at sea, although on two separate occasions in the 1994, they ran out to different songs"	What is the name of the theme song that players walk out to on Everton matchdays?
Everton hold the record for the most seasons in England's top tier , at 111 seasons out of 114 as of 2014–15 	How many seasons out of the last 114 has Everton been in England's top tier?
Formed in 1878, Everton were founding members of The Football League in 1888 and won their first league championship two seasons later	When was the Everton club founded?
On return to the top flight in 1931–32, Everton wasted no time in reaffirming their status and won a fourth League title at the first opportunity	In what season did Everton win their fourth League title?
The Everton board finally ran out of patience with Smith and he was sacked in March 2002 after an FA Cup exit at Middlesbrough, with Everton in real danger of relegation	When did the Everton club board fire Smith?
In May 2013, the club launched a new crest to improve the reproducibility of the design in print and broadcast media, particularly on a small scale	When did Everton FC launch their new crest?
Everton originally played in the southeast corner of Stanley Park, which was the site for the new Liverpool F	In which park did Everton FC originally play?
The original plan was for a new 60,000-seat stadium to be built, but in 2000 a proposal was submitted to build a 55,000 seat stadium as part of the King's Dock regeneration	How many seats did the proposal for the new Everton stadium feature in 2000?
Everton have a large fanbase, with the eighth highest average attendance in the Premier League in the 2008–09 season	What place did Everton FC rank in highest average attendance in the Premier League in the 2008-09 season?
Current manager, Roberto Martínez, is the fourteenth permanent holder of the position since it was established in 1939	Who is the current manager of the Everton Football Club?
Everton's second successful era started when Harry Catterick was made manager in 1961	In what year did Everton's second successful era begin?
Opponents to the plan included other local councils concerned by the effect of a large Tesco store being built as part of the development, and a group of fans demanding that Everton should remain within the city boundaries of Liverpool	Where did a group of fans demand that Everton remain within the city boundaries of?
In October 2009, Everton took 7,000 travelling fans to Benfica, their largest ever away crowd in Europe since the 1985 European Cup Winners' Cup Final	How many travelling fans did Everton bring with them to Benefica in 2009?
is a limited company with the board of directors holding a majority of the shares	Who holds a majority of the shares in the Everton FC?
Everton's biggest rivalry is with neighbours Liverpool, against whom they contest the Merseyside derby	Who is the Everton Football Club's biggest rivals?
Neville Southall holds the record for the most Everton appearances, having played 751 first-team matches between 1981 and 1997, and previously held the record for the most league clean sheets during a season 	What player holds the Everton Football Club record for most appearances?
The record attendance for an Everton home match is 78,299 against Liverpool on 18 September 1948	How many fans were in attendance during Everton's match against Liverpool on September 18, 1948?
1	How many fans were injured in Everton's 1948 match against Liverpool that drew the largest crowd they've had?
The club also owned and operated a professional basketball team, by the name of Everton Tigers, who compete in the elite British Basketball League	What was the name of Everton's professional basketball team?
Everton also have links with Chilean team Everton de Viña del Mar who were named after the English club	What is the name of the Chilean team that has ties to the Everton FC?
"""The Boys in Blue"", released in 1984, peaked at number 82"	"What year did the Everton FC release their UK pop song ""The Boys in Blue""?"
A fifteenth-place finish the following season saw Royle resign towards the end of the campaign, to be temporarily replaced by club captain, Dave Watson	Who temporarily replaced Joe Royle as club captain after he resigned?
"Since going blue in 1901, Everton have been given the simple nickname ""The Blues"""	"What year did the Everton Football Club ""go blue""?"
Old English or Anglo-Saxon is the earliest historical form of the English language, spoken in England and southern and eastern Scotland in the early Middle Ages	What is the name of the English language's earliest form?
The four main dialectal forms of Old English were Mercian, Northumbrian, Kentish, and West Saxon	Along with West Saxon, Northumbrian and Mercian, what was one of the four main dialects of Old English?
Old English contained a certain number of loanwords from Latin, which was the scholarly and diplomatic lingua franca of Western Europe	From what language did Old English borrow some words?
Old English nouns had grammatical gender, a feature absent in modern English, which uses only natural gender	What type of gender did Old English nouns possess?
The Latin alphabet of the time still lacked the letters ⟨j⟩ and ⟨w⟩, and there was no ⟨v⟩ as distinct from ⟨u⟩; moreover native Old English spellings did not use ⟨k⟩, ⟨q⟩ or ⟨z⟩	When the Latin alphabet was introduced to Old English, what letter was the same as v?
q	Along with k and z, what Latin letter was not used in Old English?
The first example is taken from the opening lines of the folk-epic Beowulf, a poem of some 3,000 lines and the single greatest work of Old English	What is regarded as the greatest literary work in Old English?
Old English is one of the West Germanic languages, and its closest relatives are Old Frisian and Old Saxon	To what language group does Old English belong?
A later literary standard, dating from the later 10th century, arose under the influence of Bishop Æthelwold of Winchester, and was followed by such writers as the prolific Ælfric of Eynsham 	"Who was known by the nickname ""the Grammarian""?"
Old English was not static, and its usage covered a period of 700 years, from the Anglo-Saxon settlement of Britain in the 5th century to the late 11th century, some time after the Norman invasion	For about how many years was Old English used?
Some Mercian texts continued to be written, however, and the influence of Mercian is apparent in some of the translations produced under Alfred's programme, many of which were produced by Mercian scholars	From what Old English dialect is the standard for of Modern English descended?
The strength of the Viking influence on Old English appears from the fact that the indispensable elements of the language - pronouns, modals, comparatives, pronominal adverbs , conjunctions and prepositions - show the most marked Danish influence; the best evidence of Scandinavian influence appears in the extensive word borrowings for, as Jespersen indicates, no texts exist in either Scandinavia or in Northern England from this time to give certain evidence of an influence on syntax	What language influenced Old English as a result of the Viking invasions?
Unlike Modern English, Old English is a language rich in morphological diversity	What trait does Old English possess that Modern English lacks?
The influence of Old Norse certainly helped move English from a synthetic language along the continuum to a more analytic word order, and Old Norse most likely made a greater impact on the English language than any other language	What language had the greatest influence on English?
The form of the verb varies with person , number , tense , and mood 	Along with the present, what was a verb tense in Old English?
Old English is a West Germanic language, developing out of Ingvaeonic dialects from the 5th century	What language family does Old English belong to?
Some of the most important surviving works of Old English literature are Beowulf, an epic poem; the Anglo-Saxon Chronicle, a record of early English history; the Franks Casket, an inscribed early whalebone artefact; and Cædmon's Hymn, a Christian religious poem	What is an important Old English historical record?
Old English developed from a set of Anglo-Frisian or North Sea Germanic dialects originally spoken by Germanic tribes traditionally known as the Angles, Saxons, and Jutes	What is another name for Anglo-Frisian?
With the unification of the Anglo-Saxon kingdoms by Alfred the Great in the later 9th century, the language of government and literature became standardised around the West Saxon dialect 	What king unified the Anglo-Saxon realms in England?
Of these, Northumbria south of the Tyne, and most of Mercia, were overrun by the Vikings during the 9th century	Along with Northumbria, what kingdom was invaded by the Vikings?
Another source of loanwords was Old Norse, which came into contact with Old English via the Scandinavian rulers and settlers in the Danelaw from the late 9th century, and during the rule of Cnut and other Danish kings in the early 11th century	During what century did Cnut rule?
) Additionally, modern editions often distinguish between velar and palatal ⟨c⟩ and ⟨g⟩ by placing dots above the palatals: ⟨ċ⟩, ⟨ġ⟩	What form of c, when written, contains a dot over the letter?
w	What conventional letter from the Latin alphabet typically replaces the wynn from Old English?
A number of websites devoted to Neo-Paganism and Historical re-enactment offer reference material and forums promoting the active use of Old English	What modern religion sometimes uses Old English?
Old English was first written in runes, using the futhorc – a rune set derived from the Germanic 24-character elder futhark, extended by five more runes used to represent Anglo-Saxon vowel sounds, and sometimes by several more additional characters	What was written using the Germanic 24-character elder Furthark?
A fleet carrier is intended to operate with the main fleet and usually provides an offensive capability	What type of carrier is the largest?
Escort aircraft carriers, such as USS Bogue, were sometimes purpose-built, but most were converted from merchant ships as a stop-gap measure to provide anti-submarine air support for convoys and amphibious invasions	What type of aircraft carrier was the USS Bogue?
Petersburg, Russia on 30 June 2011, the head of Russia's United Shipbuilding Corporation said his company expected to begin design work for a new carrier in 2016, with a goal of beginning construction in 2018 and having the carrier achieve initial operational capability by 2023	When did Russia's United Shipbuilding Corporation expect to begin design work for a new carrier?
"As ""runways at sea"", aircraft carriers have a flat-top flight deck, which launches and recovers aircraft"	"What are typically regarded as ""runways at sea""?"
Since the early 1950s on conventional carriers it has been the practice to recover aircraft at an angle to port of the axial line of the ship	When did conventional carriers start recovering aircraft at an angle to port of the axial line of the ship?
Another deck structure that can be seen is a ski-jump ramp at the forward end of the flight deck	Where are ski-jump ramps located on aircraft carriers?
An aircraft carrier is a warship that serves as a seagoing airbase, equipped with a full-length flight deck and facilities for carrying, arming, deploying, and recovering aircraft	What type of flight decks are aircraft carriers equipped with?
The 1903 advent of heavier-than-air fixed-wing aircraft was closely followed in 1910 by the first experimental take-off of an airplane, made from the deck of a United States Navy vessel , and the first experimental landings were conducted in 1911	In what year was the advent of heavier-than-air fixed-wing aircraft?
Modern navies that operate such aircraft carriers treat them as the capital ship of the fleet, a role previously held by the battleship	Which ship was originally known as being the capital ship of the fleet?
The Royal Australian Navy is in the process of procuring two Canberra-class LHD's, the first of which was commissioned in November 2015, while the second is expected to enter service in 2016	Who is in the process of procuring two Canbera-class LHD's?
The British Royal Navy is constructing two new larger STOVL aircraft carriers, the Queen Elizabeth class, to replace the three Invincible-class carriers	What is the British Navy constructing to replace their three Invincible-class carriers?
The constraints of constructing a flight deck affect the role of a given carrier strongly, as they influence the weight, type, and configuration of the aircraft that may be launched	Why do the constraints of constructing a flight deck affect the role of a carrier?
Non-VTOL or conventional aircraft cannot decelerate on their own, and almost all carriers using them must have arrested-recovery systems (-BAR, e	Why do almost all carriers using conventional aircraft have arrested-recovery systems?
Key personnel involved in the flight deck include the shooters, the handler, and the air boss	What are 3 key personnel involved in the flight deck?
The disadvantage of the ski-jump is the penalty it exacts on aircraft size, payload, and fuel load ; heavily laden aircraft can not launch using a ski-jump because their high loaded weight requires either a longer takeoff roll than is possible on a carrier deck, or assistance from a catapult or JATO rocket	What is the disadvantage of the ski-jump?
One STOBAR carrier: Liaoning was originally built as the 57,000 tonne Soviet Admiral Kuznetsov-class carrier Varyag and was later purchased as a stripped hulk by China in 1998 on the pretext of use as a floating casino, then partially rebuilt and towed to China for completion	Why did China purchase the STOBAR carrier Liaoning in 1998?
India started the construction of a 40,000-tonne, 260-metre-long Vikrant-class aircraft carrier in 2009	Who started construction of a 40,000-tonne Vikrant-class carrier in 2009?
Carriers have evolved since their inception in the early twentieth century from wooden vessels used to deploy balloons to nuclear-powered warships that carry dozens of aircraft, including fighter jets and helicopters	What were carriers used for in the early 20th century?
"There is no single definition of an ""aircraft carrier"", and modern navies use several variants of the type"	"What is the definition of an ""aircraft carrier""?"
The aircraft carrier dramatically changed naval combat in World War II, because air power was becoming a significant factor in warfare	What dramatically changed naval combat in World War II?
The development of flattop vessels produced the first large fleet ships	What develpment produced the first large fleet ships?
The navy also evaluated the Electromagnetic Aircraft Launch System , which is being used by the US Navy in their latest Gerald R	What does EMALS stand for?
In August 2013, a launching ceremony for Japan's largest military ship since World War II was held in Yokohama	What was the August 2013 launching ceremony in Yokohama held for?
The main new features are implementation of Electromagnetic Aircraft Launch System and unmanned aerial vehicles	Which feature of the new ships will replace the old steam catapults?
If the aircraft are VTOL-capable or helicopters, they do not need to decelerate and hence there is no such need	What type of aircraft have no need to decelerate?
The superstructure of a carrier are concentrated in a relatively small area called an island, a feature pioneered on the HMS Hermes in 1923	What feature was pioneered on the HMS Hermes in 1923?
1 CATOBAR carrier: Charles de Gaulle is a 42,000 tonne nuclear-powered aircraft carrier, commissioned in 2001 and is the flagship of the French Navy 	What is the name of the 42,000 tonne nuclear-powered carrier commissioned in 2001?
fleet comprises 10 supercarriers	How many supercarriers did the U.S. fleet have following the deactivation of the USS Enterprise?
Since World War II, aircraft carrier designs have increased in size to accommodate a steady increase in aircraft size	Why have aircraft carriers increased in size since World War II?
Conventional aircraft rely upon a landing signal officer to monitor the aircraft's approach, visually gauge glideslope, attitude, and airspeed, and transmit that data to the pilot	What does LSO stand for?
Although STOVL aircraft are capable of taking off vertically from a spot on the deck, using the ramp and a running start is far more fuel efficient and permits a heavier launch weight	What is a more fuel efficient way for STOVL aircraft to take off rather than vertically?
One CATOBAR carrier: São Paulo is a Clemenceau-class aircraft carrier currently in service with the Brazilian Navy	What class carrier is the Sao Paulo?
1 STOBAR carrier: Admiral Flota Sovetskovo Soyuza Kuznetsov: 55,000 tonne Admiral Kuznetsov-class STOBAR aircraft carrier	What type of carrier is Admiral Flota Sovetskovo Soyuza Kuznetsov?
The Royal Navy is constructing two new larger STOVL aircraft carriers, the Queen Elizabeth class, to replace the three now retired Invincible-class carriers	Which class of aircraft carriers is being constructed to replace the Invincible-class carriers?
"In 2007, two FAA whistleblowers, inspectors Charalambe ""Bobby"" Boutris and Douglas E"	When did two whisleblowers allege that Boutris attempted to ground Southwest Airlines?
"On July 22, 2008, in the aftermath of the Southwest Airlines inspection scandal, a bill was unanimously approved in the House to tighten regulations concerning airplane maintenance procedures, including the establishment of a whistleblower office and a two-year ""cooling off"" period that FAA inspectors or supervisors of inspectors must wait before they can work for those they regulated"	When did the aftermath of the Southwest Airlines inspection scandal happen?
The hijacking epidemic of the 1960s had already brought the agency into the field of civil aviation security	What epidemic did the FAA have to handle in the 1960s?
On the eve of America's entry into World War II, CAA began to extend its ATC responsibilities to takeoff and landing operations at airports	When did the CAA begin to exptend it's ATC responsibilities?
By the mid-1970s, the agency had achieved a semi-automated air traffic control system using both radar and computer technology	When did the agency acheive a semi-automated air traffic control system?
The Air Commerce Act of May 20, 1926, is the cornerstone of the federal government's regulation of civil aviation	When was the Air Commerce Act passed?
The approaching era of jet travel, and a series of midair collisions , prompted passage of the Federal Aviation Act of 1958	When did the Grand-Canyon mid-air collision happen?
On October 31, 2013, after outcry from media outlets, including heavy criticism from Nick Bilton of The New York Times, the FAA announced it will allow airlines to expand the passengers use of portable electronic devices during all phases of flight, but mobile phone calls will still be prohibited	When did the FAA decide to expand passengers use of portable elctronic devices during all phases of flight?
In 1967, a new U	When did the US DOT combine major federal responsibilities for air and surface transport?
The Aeronautics Branch was renamed the Bureau of Air Commerce in 1934 to reflect its enhanced status within the Department	What was the Areonautics Branch renamed to?
In 2014, the FAA changed a long-standing approach to air traffic control candidates that eliminated preferences based on training and experience at flight schools in favor of a personality test open to anyone irrespective of experience	When did the FAA change it's long-standing approach to air traffic control candidates?
""" Retired NASA Office of Inspector General Senior Special Agent Joseph Gutheinz, who used to be a Special Agent with the Office of Inspector General for the Department of Transportation and with FAA Security, is one of the most outspoken critics of FAA"	What retired NASA Office of inspector general is outspoken about the FAA?
In 1998 Blackpool and Blackburn with Darwen became independent unitary authorities	In what year did Blackpool and Blackburn become independent unitary authorities?
While the administrative boundaries changed in the 1970s, the county palatine boundaries remain the same as the historic boundaries	When did the administrative boundaries for the Duchy of Lancaster change?
Lancashire has a mostly comprehensive system with four state grammar schools	How many state grammar schools are in Lancashire?
The county was once the focal point for many of the sport's professional competitions including the Lancashire League competition which ran from 1895 to 1970, and the Lancashire County Cup which was abandoned in 1993	What years did the Lancashire League competition run from?
The first open competition for brass bands was held at Manchester in 1853, and continued annually until the 1980s	Where was the first open competition for brass bands held?
Manchester and Liverpool grew into its largest cities, dominating global trade and the birth of modern capitalism	What are the biggest cities in Lancashire?
The county was subject to significant boundary reform in 1974 that removed Liverpool and Manchester and most of their surrounding conurbations to form the metropolitan counties of Merseyside and Greater Manchester	When was Liverpool and Manchester removed from Lancashire boundaries?
In 1889, the administrative county of Lancashire was created, covering the historical county except for the county boroughs such as Blackburn, Burnley, Barrow-in-Furness, Preston, Wigan, Liverpool and Manchester	When was the administrative county of Lancashire created?
During the 20th century, the county became increasingly urbanised, particularly the southern part	When did the county become more urbanised?
Much of the lowland in this area is devoted to dairy farming and cheesemaking, whereas the higher ground is more suitable for sheep, and the highest ground is uncultivated moorland	What is most of the lowland in the county devoted to?
The Duchy administers bona vacantia within the County Palatine, receiving the property of persons who die intestate and where the legal ownership cannot be ascertained	What does the Duchy administer within the County Palatine?
The Lancashire economy relies strongly on the M6 motorway which runs from north to south, past Lancaster and Preston	What does the Lancashire economy rely on?
The major settlements in the ceremonial county are concentrated on the Fylde coast , and a belt of towns running west-east along the M65: Preston, Blackburn, Accrington, Burnley, Nelson and Colne	Where are the major settlements in the ceremonial county located?
Liverpool produced a number of nationally and internationally successful popular singers in the 1950s, including traditional pop stars Frankie Vaughan and Lita Roza, and one of the most successful British rock and roll stars in Billy Fury	Where was pop star Frankie Vaughan from?
"In the early modern era the county shared in the national tradition of balladry, including perhaps the finest border ballad, ""The Ballad of Chevy Chase"", thought to have been composed by the Lancashire-born minstrel Richard Sheale"	"Who was ""The Ballad of Chevy Chase"" composed by?"
The county was established in 1182, later than many other counties	When was Lancashire established?
By the census of 1971, the population of Lancashire and its county boroughs had reached 5,129,416, making it the most populous geographic county in the UK	How many people lived in Lancashire in 1971?
A local pioneer of folk song collection in the first half of the 19th century was Shakespearean scholar James Orchard Halliwell, but it was not until the second folk revival in the 20th century that the full range of song from the county, including industrial folk song, began to gain attention	Who was a local pioneer of folk song collection?
The Red Rose of Lancaster is the county flower found on the county's heraldic badge and flag	What is the county flower of Lancaster?
More recent Lancashire-born composers include Hugh Wood , Sir Peter Maxwell Davies , Sir Harrison Birtwistle , Gordon Crosse ,John McCabe , Roger Smalley , Nigel Osborne , Steve Martland , Simon Holt and Philip Cashian 	In what year was Hugh Wood born?
The Early Triassic was between 250 million to 247 million years ago and was dominated by deserts as Pangaea had not yet broken up, thus the interior was nothing but arid	What era was 250 million to 247 million years ago?
The climatic changes of the late Jurassic and Cretaceous provided for further adaptive radiation	What event produced further adaptations during the Jurassic and Cretaceous periods?
The lower boundary is set by the Permian–Triassic extinction event, during which approximately 90% to 96% of marine species and 70% of terrestrial vertebrates became extinct	What event sets the boundary for the Triassic?
The Late Cretaceous spans from 100 million to 65 million years ago	What is the span of the Late Cretaceous period?
The climate of the Cretaceous is less certain and more widely disputed	What is uncertain about the Cretaceous?
The Late Triassic spans from 237 million to 200 million years ago	What was the span of the Late Triassic?
The Early Cretaceous spans from 145 million to 100 million years ago	What is the span of the Early Cretaceous?
Sea levels began to rise during the Jurassic, which was probably caused by an increase in seafloor spreading	What caused the sea to rise during the Jurassic?
The Early Jurassic spans from 200 million years to 175 million years ago	What is the span of years for the Early Jurassic?
Compared to the vigorous convergent plate mountain-building of the late Paleozoic, Mesozoic tectonic deformation was comparatively mild	At what time was tectonic formation mild?
Recent research indicates that the specialized animals that formed complex ecosystems, with high biodiversity, complex food webs and a variety of niches, took much longer to reestablish, recovery did not begin until the start of the mid-Triassic, 4M to 6M years after the extinction and was not complete until 30M years after the Permian–Triassic extinction event	What type of animals took longer to reestablish?
The era began in the wake of the Permian–Triassic extinction event, the largest well-documented mass extinction in Earth's history, and ended with the Cretaceous–Paleogene extinction event, another mass extinction which is known for having killed off non-avian dinosaurs, as well as other plant and animal species	At what point did the Mesozoic era begin?
The Middle Triassic spans from 247 million to 237 million years ago	What is the span of years of the Middle Triassic?
The Late Jurassic spans from 163 million to 145 million years ago	How many years did the Late Jurassic cover?
The Triassic was generally dry, a trend that began in the late Carboniferous, and highly seasonal, especially in the interior of Pangaea	What was the general rainfall in the Triassic?
The dominant land plant species of the time were gymnosperms, which are vascular, cone-bearing, non-flowering plants such as conifers that produce seeds without a coating	What was the dominant plant species of the Mesozoic?
It was only in the 1980s that digital telephony transmission networks became possible, such as with ISDN networks, assuring a minimum bit rate for compressed video and audio transmission	In what decade was digital telephony transmission made possible?
The MC controls the conferencing while it is active on the signaling plane, which is simply where the system manages conferencing creation, endpoint signaling and in-conferencing controls	What controls the conferencing while its active on the signaling plane?
High speed Internet connectivity has become more widely available at a reasonable cost and the cost of video capture and display technology has decreased	What technology has become more widely available and affordable?
Videophone calls , differ from videoconferencing in that they expect to serve individuals, not groups	Videophone calls are different from videoconferencing in what way?
Technological developments by videoconferencing developers in the 2010s have extended the capabilities of video conferencing systems beyond the boardroom for use with hand-held mobile devices that combine the use of video, audio and on-screen drawing capabilities broadcasting in real-time over secure networks, independent of location	In what decade did developers extend the capabilities of videoconferencing to more devices?
Videoconferencing provides students with the opportunity to learn by participating in two-way communication forums	What can videoconferencing offer students?
One of the first demonstrations of the ability for telecommunications to help sign language users communicate with each other occurred when AT&T's videophone was introduced to the public at the 1964 New York World's Fair –two deaf users were able to communicate freely with each other between the fair and another city	What company introduced the first device to help deaf people communicate through telecommunications?
In the increasingly globalized film industry, videoconferencing has become useful as a method by which creative talent in many different locations can collaborate closely on the complex details of film production	In what industry has videoconferencing become useful?
A videoconference allows two or more locations to communicate via live, simultaneous two-way video and audio transmissions	What is a video-conference also known as?
This technique was very expensive, though, and could not be used for applications such as telemedicine, distance education, and business meetings	What is one area where teleconferencing could not be used?
While videoconferencing technology was initially used primarily within internal corporate communication networks, one of the first community service usages of the technology started in 1992 through a unique partnership with PictureTel and IBM Corporations which at the time were promoting a jointly developed desktop based videoconferencing product known as the PCS/1	What year did one the first community service usages of videoconferencing take place?
Simultaneous videoconferencing among three or more remote points is possible by means of a Multipoint Control Unit 	What enables videoconferencing to connect three or more remote points?
Videoconferencing can enable individuals in distant locations to participate in meetings on short notice, with time and money savings	In what one way can videoconferencing help a person?
Finally, in the 1990s, Internet Protocol-based videoconferencing became possible, and more efficient video compression technologies were developed, permitting desktop, or personal computer -based videoconferencing	In what decade was Internet video-conferencing made possible?
The hardware or software that performs compression is called a codec 	What is the software that performs audio and/or video compression?
New services utilizing videocalling and videoconferencing, such as teachers and psychologists conducting online sessions, personal videocalls to inmates incarcerated in penitentiaries, and videoconferencing to resolve airline engineering issues at maintenance facilities, are being created or evolving on an ongoing basis	What profession utilizes videoconferencing technology to conduct online sessions?
Videoconferencing is a highly useful technology for real-time telemedicine and telenursing applications, such as diagnosis, consulting, transmission of medical images, etc	What is one way that videoconferencing is useful?
VRS services have become well developed nationally in Sweden since 1997 and also in the United States since the first decade of the 2000s	In what European country has VRS services become well developed?
In May 2005, the first high definition video conferencing systems, produced by LifeSize Communications, were displayed at the Interop trade show in Las Vegas, Nevada, able to provide video at 30 frames per second with a 1280 by 720 display resolution	What year was the first HD video conferencing system displayed?
The advantages of this technique are that the video and audio will generally be of higher quality because they don't have to be relayed through a central point	What is one advantage of using an H.323 technique?
Social Security Administration , which oversees the world's largest administrative judicial system under its Office of Disability Adjudication and Review , has made extensive use of videoconferencing to conduct hearings at remote locations	What US Department oversees the World's largest administrative judicial system?
Dual dating uses two consecutive years because of differences in the starting date of the year, or includes both the Julian and Gregorian dates	What does duel dating use to show the date?
The Gregorian calendar was a reform of the Julian calendar instituted in 1582 by Pope Gregory XIII, after whom the calendar was named, by papal bull Inter gravissimas dated 24 February 1582	Who revised the Julian calendar?
Philip II of Spain decreed the change from the Julian to the Gregorian calendar, which affected much of Roman Catholic Europe, as Philip was at the time ruler over Spain and Portugal as well as much of Italy	What ruler decreed the change to the Gregorian calendar?
"During the period between 1582, when the first countries adopted the Gregorian calendar, and 1923, when the last European country adopted it, it was often necessary to indicate the date of some event in both the Julian calendar and in the Gregorian calendar, for example, ""10/21 February 1750/51"", where the dual year accounts for some countries already beginning their numbered year on 1 January while others were still using some other date"	When did the last country to adopt the Gregorian calendar start using it?
002% correction in the length of the year	What was the correction due to?
The Gregorian calendar is a solar calendar	What kind of calendar is the Gregorian calendar?
Easter was the Sunday after the 15th day of this moon, whose 14th day was allowed to precede the equinox	When was Easter Sunday celebrated after the equinox?
Firstly, he proposed a correction to the length of the year	What did Lilius first propose to correct in the calendar?
Most Western European countries changed the start of the year to 1 January before they adopted the Gregorian calendar	On what date did most European countries set the start of the new year?
Extending the Gregorian calendar backwards to dates preceding its official introduction produces a proleptic calendar, which should be used with some caution	Attempting to use Gregorian dates for earlier events on the Julian calendar should be used with what action?
A language-independent alternative used in many countries is to hold up one's two fists with the index knuckle of the left hand against the index knuckle of the right hand	Why would a knuckle -space count be used to determine months?
The Gregorian reform contained two parts: a reform of the Julian calendar as used prior to Pope Gregory XIII's time and a reform of the lunar cycle used by the Church, with the Julian calendar, to calculate the date of Easter	How many parts did the Gregorian calendar reform have?
Prior to 1917, Turkey used the lunar Islamic calendar with the Hegira era for general purposes and the Julian calendar for fiscal purposes	What calendar did Turkey use before 1917 for general purposes?
Up to February 28 in the calendar you are converting from add one day less or subtract one day more than the calculated value	How many days do you subtract to convert days from a calendar?
2425 days , a reduction of 10 minutes 48 seconds per year, the Gregorian calendar reform also dealt with the accumulated difference between these lengths	What is the difference in time between the calendars?
The Council of Trent approved a plan in 1563 for correcting the calendrical errors, requiring that the date of the vernal equinox be restored to that which it held at the time of the First Council of Nicaea in 325 and that an alteration to the calendar be designed to prevent future drift	When did the Council of Trent agree to the corrected calendar?
A month after having decreed the reform, the pope with a brief of 3 April 1582 granted to Antonio Lilio, the brother of Luigi Lilio, the exclusive right to publish the calendar for a period of ten years	When were the rights to publish the calendar granted?
The year used in dates during the Roman Republic and the Roman Empire was the consular year, which began on the day when consuls first entered office—probably 1 May before 222 BC, 15 March from 222 BC and 1 January from 153 BC	What year did the Roman Republic use for dates?
In conjunction with the system of months there is a system of weeks	What other system of calculations are inherent in the Gregorian calendar?
Because the spring equinox was tied to the date of Easter, the Roman Catholic Church considered the seasonal drift in the date of Easter undesirable	Who thought that the seasonal drift in the date of Easter unacceptable?
Christopher Clavius, the architect of the Gregorian calendar, noted that the tables agreed neither on the time when the sun passed through the vernal equinox nor on the length of the mean tropical year	Who was the architect of the Gregorian calendar?
Because the Calendar Act of 1750 altered the start of the year, and also aligned the British calendar with the Gregorian calendar, there is some confusion as to what these terms mean	When was the Calendar act enacted?
The Gregorian calendar improves the approximation made by the Julian calendar by skipping three Julian leap days in every 400 years, giving an average year of 365	The Gregorian calendar is an improvement over what other calendar?
In February 2003, planning for the Xenon software platform began, and was headed by Microsoft's Vice President J Allard	What Microsoft executive was in charge of 360 development?
"At launch, the Xbox 360 was available in two configurations: the ""Xbox 360"" package , priced at US$399 or GB£279"	The Xbox 360 Pro included what size hard drive storage?
The Xbox 360 launched with 14 games in North America and 13 in Europe	How many titles did the 360 have at launch in North America?
The December 2007 dashboard update added support for the playback of MPEG-4 ASP format videos	Support for what video format was added in 2007?
When the Xbox 360 was released, Microsoft's online gaming service Xbox Live was shut down for 24 hours and underwent a major upgrade, adding a basic non-subscription service called Xbox Live Silver to its already established premium subscription-based service 	What was the name of the non-subscription Xbox online gaming service?
The Xbox 360 features an online service, Xbox Live, which was expanded from its previous iteration on the original Xbox and received regular updates during the console's lifetime	What is the name of the 360's online service?
As well as enjoying exclusives such as additions to the Halo franchise and Gears of War, the Xbox 360 has managed to gain a simultaneous release of titles that were initially planned to be PS3 exclusives, including Devil May Cry, Ace Combat, Virtua Fighter, Grand Theft Auto IV, Final Fantasy XIII, Tekken 6, Metal Gear Solid : Rising, and L	What are two prominent 360 exclusive franchises?
"To aid customers with defective consoles, Microsoft extended the Xbox 360's manufacturer's warranty to three years for hardware failure problems that generate a ""General Hardware Failure"" error report"	What hardware defect code plagued the 360?
In 2009, IGN named the Xbox 360 the sixth-greatest video game console of all time, out of a field of 25	What online source called the 360 the 6th greatest console of all time in 2009?
The Xbox 360 sold much better than its predecessor, and although not the best-selling console of the seventh-generation, it is regarded as a success since it strengthened Microsoft as a major force in the console market at the expense of well-established rivals	Why was the 360 considered a market success for Microsoft?
"The Xbox 360's original graphical user interface was the Xbox 360 Dashboard; a tabbed interface that featured five ""Blades"" , and was designed by AKQA and Audiobrain"	What was the original user interface for the 360 called?
Pac-Man, the service offers some new original games like Assault Heroes	What was a new, original title originally available from Arcade?
At the 2007, 2008, and 2009 Consumer Electronics Shows, Microsoft had announced that IPTV services would soon be made available to use through the Xbox 360	At what conventions did Microsoft announce IPTV support through the 360?
The Xbox Live Marketplace is a virtual market designed for the console that allows Xbox Live users to download purchased or promotional content	What XBox Live service allows users to buy games and downloadable content?
Launched worldwide across 2005–2006, the Xbox 360 was initially in short supply in many regions, including North America and Europe	What was the initial launch window of the 360 console?
"In May 2008 Microsoft announced that 10 million Xbox 360s had been sold and that it was the ""first current generation gaming console"" to surpass the 10 million figure in the US"	What sales figure was the 360 the first console of its generation to surpass?
TechRadar deemed the Xbox 360 as the most influential game system through its emphasis of digital media distribution, Xbox Live online gaming service, and game achievement feature	Besides online gaming and media distribution, what other feature made the 360 influential, according to TechRadar?
"Kinect is a ""controller-free gaming and entertainment experience"" for the Xbox 360"	How did Microsoft describe Kinect?
Modifications include a reduction in the number, size, and placement of components, the addition of dabs of epoxy on the corners and edges of the CPU and GPU as glue to prevent movement relative to the board during heat expansion, and a second GPU heatsink to dissipate more heat	How did Microsoft modify the architecture of the 360 to reduce failure rates?
On November 6, 2006, Microsoft announced the Xbox Video Marketplace, an exclusive video store accessible through the console	What was the name of the 360's video store service?
While the original Xbox sold poorly in Japan, selling just 2 million units while it was on the market , the Xbox 360 sold even more poorly, selling only 1	How did the original Xbox fare in Japan in general?
"Two major hardware revisions of the Xbox 360 have succeeded the original models; the Xbox 360 S replaced the original ""Elite"" and ""Arcade"" models in 2010"	How many major hardware revisions has the 360 had?
Six games were initially available in Japan, while eagerly anticipated titles such as Dead or Alive 4 and Enchanted Arms were released in the weeks following the console's launch	How many launch titles did the 360 have in Japan?
Music, photos and videos can be played from standard USB mass storage devices, Xbox 360 proprietary storage devices , and servers or computers with Windows Media Center or Windows XP with Service pack 2 or higher within the local-area network in streaming mode	What PC operating system is required to stream content to a 360?
2	The service pack number needs to be lower than what to work with Xbox 360?
Xbox Live Gold includes the same features as Free and includes integrated online game playing capabilities outside of third-party subscriptions	What extra features do Xbox Live Gold members get?
On May 26, 2009, Microsoft announced the future release of the Zune HD , the next addition to the Zune product range	What hardware device was merged with the video marketplace?
Beginning in 1689, the colonies became involved in a series of wars between Great Britain and France for control of North America, the most important of which were Queen Anne's War, in which the British conquered French colony Acadia, and the final French and Indian War when Britain was victorious over all the French colonies in North America	When did wars between Britain and France in North America start?
By far the largest military action in which the United States engaged during this era was the War of 1812	What was the biggest war the US got involved with in the early 19th century?
Secretary of War Elihu Root led the modernization of the Army	Who was the Secretary of War who modernized the US military at the beginning of the 20th century?
The United States originally wished to remain neutral when World War I broke out in August 1914	When World War I started, what was the official US position?
One side views the war as a necessary part of the Containment policy, which allowed the enemy to choose the time and place of warfare	The Vietnam War was an element of what US diplomatic policy?
The Persian Gulf War was a conflict between Iraq and a coalition force of 34 nations led by the United States	How many nations were against Iraq in the US-led coalition?
US troops participated in a UN peacekeeping mission in Somalia beginning in 1992	In what African country did US troops participate in peacekeeping operations?
In January 2002, the U	When did the US send troops to the Philippines to battle terrorists?
A British sortie from Canada in 1777 ended with the disastrous surrender of a British army at Saratoga	What battle ended a British invasion from Canada in the Revolutionary War?
When revolutionary France declared war on Great Britain in 1793, the United States sought to remain neutral, but the Jay Treaty, which was favorable to Great Britain, angered the French government, which viewed it as a violation of the 1778 Treaty of Alliance	What was the US policy when France declared war on England in 1793?
In the Treaty of Paris after the Revolution, the British had ceded the lands between the Appalachian Mountains and the Mississippi River to the United States, without consulting the Shawnee, Cherokee, Choctaw and other smaller tribes who lived there	What treaty ceded territory to the US extending west to the Mississippi River?
"Sectional tensions had long existed between the states located north of the Mason–Dixon line and those south of it, primarily centered on the ""peculiar institution"" of slavery and the ability of states to overrule the decisions of the national government"	What dividing line separated slave states from free states?
The Army performed well in combat in Cuba	Where did the American army fight the Spanish in the Spanish American War?
The Philippine–American War was an armed conflict between a group of Filipino revolutionaries and the American forces following the ceding of the Philippines to the United States after the defeat of Spanish forces in the Battle of Manila	When was the Philippine-American War fought?
The loss of eight battleships and 2,403 Americans at Pearl Harbor forced the U	How many battleships did the US Navy lose at Pearl Harbor?
The Korean War was a conflict between the United States and its United Nations allies and the communist powers under influence of the Soviet Union and the People's Republic of China 	What country supplied troops to North Korea during the Korean War?
North Korean forces struck massively in the summer of 1950 and nearly drove the outnumbered US and ROK defenders into the sea	When did North Korean forces initiate attacks on US and UN forces in the Korean war?
Fighting on one side was a coalition of forces including the Republic of Vietnam , the United States, supplemented by South Korea, Thailand, Australia, New Zealand, and the Philippines	What acronym was given to South Vietnamese troops?
The bombing campaigns of the Air Force were tightly controlled by the White House for political reasons, and until 1972 avoided the main Northern cities of Hanoi and Haiphong and concentrated on bombing jungle supply trails, especially the Ho Chi Minh Trail	What two northern Vietnamese cities did the US avoid bombing at the outset of the war?
In 1983 fighting between Palestinian refugees and Lebanese factions reignited that nation's long-running civil war	When did fighting between Palestinians and the Lebanese begin?
There is general agreement that US technological superiority was a crucial factor but the speed and scale of the Iraqi collapse has also been attributed to poor strategic and tactical leadership and low morale among Iraqi troops, which resulted from a history of incompetent leadership	What is the main reason the US-led coalition won a decisive victory in the Persian Gulf War?
After just 100 hours of ground combat, and with all of Kuwait and much of southern Iraq under coalition control, US President George H	How long did ground combat operations last in the Persian Gulf War?
The War on Terrorism is a global effort by the governments of several countries to neutralize international terrorist groups and ensure that countries considered by the US and some of its allies to be Rogue Nations no longer support terrorist activities	What term is given to the attempt by the US and her allies to fight global terrorist groups?
After the lengthy Iraq disarmament crisis culminated with an American demand that Iraqi President Saddam Hussein leave Iraq, which was refused, a coalition led by the United States and the United Kingdom fought the Iraqi army in the 2003 invasion of Iraq	What demand did the US make before invading Iraq in 2003?
As a result of the Libyan Civil War, the United Nations enacted United Nations Security Council Resolution 1973, which imposed a no-fly zone over Libya, and the protection of civilians from the forces of Muammar Gaddafi	What declaration established a no-fly zone over Libya?
His biggest challenge was logistics, since neither Congress nor the states had the funding to provide adequately for the equipment, munitions, clothing, paychecks, or even the food supply of the soldiers	What was the biggest problem General Washington faced?
The Berbers along the Barbary Coast sent pirates to capture merchant ships and hold the crews for ransom	Where was the Barbary Coast?
The Confederacy hoped to win by getting Britain and France to intervene, or else by wearing down the North's willingness to fight	What was the Confederate overall strategy to win the Civil War?
The Navy was modernized in the 1880s, and by the 1890s had adopted the naval power strategy of Captain Alfred Thayer Mahan—as indeed did every major navy	When in the 19th century was the US navy modernized?
The Mexican Revolution involved a civil war with hundreds of thousands of deaths and large numbers fleeing combat zones	What early 20th century conflict sent tens of thousands of refugees to the US?
involvement in World War I, isolationism grew within the nation	What general sentiment was the result of losses in World War I?
""" Over 16 million served , and over 400,000 died during the war"	How many Americans served in the military in World War II?
framed the war as part of its policy of containment of Communism in south Asia, but American forces were frustrated by an inability to engage the enemy in decisive battles, corruption and incompetence in the Army of the Republic of Vietnam, and ever increasing protests at home	The policy of containment in Asia was aimed at what ideology?
Ongoing political tensions between Great Britain and the thirteen colonies reached a crisis in 1774 when the British placed the province of Massachusetts under martial law after the Patriots protested taxes they regarded as a violation of their constitutional rights as Englishmen	When did Britain declare martial law in a North American colony?
The United States was a minor military power during this time, having only a modest army, Marine corps, and navy	What quality made the US only a minor military power after the Revolutionary War?
Several tribes, especially the Sioux and Comanche, fiercely resisted confinement to reservations	What two tribes particularly resisted being confined to reservations?
He immediately grasped the potential for air power, and called for the development of a torpedo plane	What aircraft did Fiske call for the development of?
"By summer 1918, a million American soldiers, or ""doughboys"" as they were often called, of the American Expeditionary Forces were in Europe under the command of John J"	What was the name given to American soldiers in Europe in 1918?
Starting in 1940 , the nation mobilized, giving high priority to air power	What was the American priority in mobilization prior to entering World War II?
The Vietnam War was a war fought between 1959 and 1975 on the ground in South Vietnam and bordering areas of Cambodia and Laos and in the strategic bombing of North Vietnam	When was the Vietnam War fought?
Before the war, many observers believed the US and its allies could win but might suffer substantial casualties , and that the tank battles across the harsh desert might rival those of North Africa during World War II	Some observers thought that the Persian Gulf War would have tank battles similar to what war?
With the emergence of ISIL and its capture of large areas of Iraq and Syria, a number of crises resulted that sparked international attention	What organization captured significant segments of Iraq and Syria?
"San Francisco band Blue Cheer released a crude and distorted cover of Eddie Cochran's classic ""Summertime Blues"", from their 1968 debut album Vincebus Eruptum, that outlined much of the later hard rock and heavy metal sound"	Where was the band Blue Cheer from?
From outside the United Kingdom and the United States, the Canadian trio Rush released three distinctively hard rock albums in 1974–75 before moving toward a more progressive sound with the 1976 album 2112	The band Rush is what nationality?
Bon Jovi's third album, Slippery When Wet , mixed hard rock with a pop sensitivity and spent a total of 8 weeks at the top of the Billboard 200 album chart, selling 12 million copies in the US while becoming the first hard rock album to spawn three top 10 singles — two of which reached number one	What is the title of Bon Jovi's third lp?
"In 1998, Aerosmith released the number one hit ""I Don't Want to Miss a Thing"", which remains the only single by a hard rock band to debut at number one"	What Aerosmith ballad debuted at number one on the charts?
Established bands made a comeback in the mid-1980s and it reached a commercial peak in the 1980s, with glam metal bands like Bon Jovi and Def Leppard and the rawer sounds of Guns N' Roses, which followed up with great success in the later part of that decade	What are two examples of glam metal bands?
The roots of hard rock can be traced back to the 1950s, particularly electric blues, which laid the foundations for key elements such as a rough declamatory vocal style, heavy guitar riffs, string-bending blues-scale guitar solos, strong beat, thick riff-laden texture, and posturing performances	What genre laid the roots for hard rock?
Led Zeppelin began to mix elements of world and folk music into their hard rock from Led Zeppelin III and Led Zeppelin IV 	"Which Led Zeppelin album featured the hit ""Stairway to Heaven""?"
The opening years of the 1980s saw a number of changes in personnel and direction of established hard rock acts, including the deaths of Bon Scott, the lead singer of AC/DC, and John Bonham, drummer with Led Zeppelin	Who was the original lead singer of AC/DC who died?
The multi-platinum releases of AC/DC's The Razors Edge , Guns N' Roses' Use Your Illusion I and Use Your Illusion II , Ozzy Osbourne's No More Tears , and Van Halen's For Unlawful Carnal Knowledge showcased this popularity	Guns N Roses released both Use Your Illusion albums in what year?
and Back , reached number 11, before the band broke up in 2006	When did the band The Darkness break up?
"Early forms of hard rock can be heard in the work of Chicago blues musicians Elmore James, Muddy Waters, and Howlin' Wolf, The Kingsmen's version of ""Louie Louie"" which made it a garage rock standard, and the songs of rhythm and blues influenced British Invasion acts, including ""You Really Got Me"" by The Kinks , ""My Generation"" by The Who , ""Shapes of Things"" by The Yardbirds and "" Satisfaction"" by The Rolling Stones"	Who were three Chicago blues players who influenced hard rock?
After the breakup of the band in 1973, vocalist Paul Rodgers joined supergroup Bad Company, whose eponymous first album was an international hit	When did Free break up?
Often categorised with the New Wave of British Heavy Metal, in 1981 Def Leppard released their second album High 'n' Dry, mixing glam-rock with heavy metal, and helping to define the sound of hard rock for the decade	What sub-genre of hard rock does Def Leppard belong to?
"This was particularly evident after the success of Nirvana's Nevermind , which combined elements of hardcore punk and heavy metal into a ""dirty"" sound that made use of heavy guitar distortion, fuzz and feedback, along with darker lyrical themes than their ""hair band"" predecessors"	What was the title of Nirvana's 1991 album?
Although Foo Fighters continued to be one of the most successful rock acts, with albums like In Your Honor reaching number two in the US and UK, many of the first wave of post-grunge bands began to fade in popularity	When did the Foo Fighters album In Your Honor come out?
The electric guitar is often emphasised, used with distortion and other effects, both as a rhythm instrument using repetitive riffs with a varying degree of complexity, and as a solo lead instrument	What instrument is usually at the center of a hard rock sound?
"Cream, in songs like ""I Feel Free"" combined blues rock with pop and psychedelia, particularly in the riffs and guitar solos of Eric Clapton"	Who was the guitarist for the band Cream?
In the United States, macabre-rock pioneer Alice Cooper achieved mainstream success with the top ten album School's Out 	Who recorded the album School's Out?
After an 8-year separation, Deep Purple returned with the classic Machine Head line-up to produce Perfect Strangers , which reached number five in the UK, hit the top five in five other countries, and was a platinum-seller in the US	What was the title of Deep Purple's 1980s reunion album?
8	How many years was Deep Purple performing before producing Perfect Strangers?
In 1995 Van Halen released Balance, a multi-platinum seller that would be the band's last with Sammy Hagar on vocals	What was Van Halen's last album with Sammy Hagar?
In the late 1960s, the term heavy metal was used interchangeably with hard rock, but gradually began to be used to describe music played with even more volume and intensity	By the late 60s, what term was synonymous with hard rock?
By the end of the decade a distinct genre of hard rock was emerging with bands like Led Zeppelin, who mixed the music of early rock bands with a more hard-edged form of blues rock and acid rock on their first two albums Led Zeppelin and Led Zeppelin II , and Deep Purple, who began as a progressive rock group but achieved their commercial breakthrough with their fourth and distinctively heavier album, In Rock 	Led Zeppelin's first two albums both came out in what year?
With the rise of disco in the US and punk rock in the UK, hard rock's mainstream dominance was rivalled toward the later part of the decade	What two genres made inroads on hard rock in the 1970s?
Established acts benefited from the new commercial climate, with Whitesnake's self-titled album selling over 17 million copies, outperforming anything in Coverdale's or Deep Purple's catalogue before or since	How many copies did Whitesnake's 1987 self title album sell?
Additionally, hard rock supergroups, such as Audioslave and Velvet Revolver , emerged and experienced some success	What hard rock supergroup contained members of Soundgarden and Rage Against the Machine?
"The term ""Great Plains"", for the region west of about the 96th or 98th meridian and east of the Rocky Mountains, was not generally used before the early 20th century"	what is the name of the region east of the Rocky Mountains?
Much of the Great Plains became open range, or rangeland where cattle roamed free, hosting ranching operations where anyone was theoretically free to run cattle	what type of land is much of the great plans?
With the arrival of Francisco Vázquez de Coronado, a Spanish conquistador, the first recorded history of encounter between Europeans and Native Americans in the Great Plains occurred in Texas, Kansas and Nebraska from 1540-1542	who was the spanish conquistador who had encounters with europeans and native americans?
The 100th meridian roughly corresponds with the line that divides the Great Plains into an area that receive 20 inches or more of rainfall per year and an area that receives less than 20 in 	what is the name of the line that divides the great plains?
After 1870, the new railroads across the Plains brought hunters who killed off almost all the bison for their hides	after about what year did railroads bring hunters to the great plains?
The rural Plains have lost a third of their population since 1920	how much of the population have the rural plains lost since 1920? 
Women organized shared meals and potluck events, as well as extended visits between families	who usually organized shared meals and potluck events?
From the 1950s on, many areas of the Great Plains have become productive crop-growing areas because of extensive irrigation on large landholdings	around when did the great plains become productive for crop growing
The Great Plains is the broad expanse of flat land , much of it covered in prairie, steppe and grassland, that lies west of the Mississippi River tallgrass prairie states and east of the Rocky Mountains in the United States and Canada	what is the great plains?
"The North American Environmental Atlas, produced by the Commission for Environmental Cooperation, a NAFTA agency composed of the geographical agencies of the Mexican, American, and Canadian governments uses the ""Great Plains"" as an ecoregion synonymous with predominant prairies and grasslands rather than as physiographic region defined by topography"	who is the North American Environmental Atlas made by?
The railroads opened up the Great Plains for settlement, for now it was possible to ship wheat and other crops at low cost to the urban markets in the East, and Europe	what mainly opened the great plains for settlement?
During the Cenozoic era, specifically about 25 million years ago during the Miocene and Pliocene epochs, the continental climate became favorable to the evolution of grasslands	about how long ago did the climate become favorable?
To allow for agricultural development of the Great Plains and house a growing population, the US passed the Homestead Acts of 1862: it allowed a settler to claim up to 160 acres of land, provided that he lived on it for a period of five years and cultivated it	when did the US pass the Homestead ACt?
Infrared radiation is used in industrial, scientific, and medical applications	Along with industrial and medical, in what applications is infrared radiation used?
The onset of infrared is defined at various values typically between 700 nm and 800 nm, but the boundary between visible and infrared light is not precisely defined	At what wavelength does the human eye become significantly less sensitive to light?
The concept of emissivity is important in understanding the infrared emissions of objects	What is the term for the property that describes how a surface's thermal emissions deviate from the ideal of a black body?
Infrared vibrational spectroscopy is a technique that can be used to identify molecules by analysis of their constituent bonds	What is the technique that analyzes the constituent bonds of molecules to identify them?
In infrared photography, infrared filters are used to capture the near-infrared spectrum	What is used in infrared photography to capture the near-infrared spectrum?
Infrared reflectography , as called by art conservators, can be applied to paintings to reveal underlying layers in a completely non-destructive manner, in particular the underdrawing or outline drawn by the artist as a guide	What technique is used in art to examine underlying layers of a painting without damaging it?
The discovery of infrared radiation is ascribed to William Herschel, the astronomer, in the early 19th century	Who discovered infrared radiation?
"Infrared radiation is popularly known as ""heat radiation"", but light and electromagnetic waves of any frequency will heat surfaces that absorb them"	What is a commonly used term for infrared radiation?
Infrared tracking, also known as infrared homing, refers to a passive missile guidance system, which uses the emission from a target of electromagnetic radiation in the infrared part of the spectrum to track it	What is another term for infrared homing?
High, cold ice clouds such as Cirrus or Cumulonimbus show up bright white, lower warmer clouds such as Stratus or Stratocumulus show up as grey with intermediate clouds shaded accordingly	Along with Cirrus, what types of clouds are cold and high?
The sensitivity of Earth-based infrared telescopes is significantly limited by water vapor in the atmosphere, which absorbs a portion of the infrared radiation arriving from space outside of selected atmospheric windows	What limits the sensitivity of infrared telescopes on Earth?
Near-infrared is the region closest in wavelength to the radiation detectable by the human eye, mid- and far-infrared are progressively further from the visible spectrum	What is the nearest wavelength to the radiation that a human eye can see?
Heat is energy in transit that flows due to temperature difference	What is the term for transit energy flowing as a result of differences in temperature?
Thermographic cameras detect radiation in the infrared range of the electromagnetic spectrum (roughly 900–14,000 nanometers or 0	In nanometers, what is the electromagnetic spectrum's range?
Cold, dark molecular clouds of gas and dust in our galaxy will glow with radiated heat as they are irradiated by imbedded stars	What irradiates clouds of gas in the galaxy and makes them glow?
Infrared is used in night vision equipment when there is insufficient visible light to see	What sort of equipment uses the infrared spectrum in the absence of sufficient visible light?
These devices usually conform to standards published by IrDA, the Infrared Data Association	What is the IrDA?
In the semiconductor industry, infrared light can be used to characterize materials such as thin films and periodic trench structures	What letter represents the index of refraction?
I	What letter represents trench structures?
Infrared cleaning is a technique used by some Motion picture film scanner, film scanners and flatbed scanners to reduce or remove the effect of dust and scratches upon the finished scan	What is the name of the technique used in scanners to minimize the effects of dust and scratches?
Earth's surface and the clouds absorb visible and invisible radiation from the sun and re-emit much of the energy as infrared back to atmosphere	Along with the surface of the Earth, what objects absorb radiation from the sun?
"Biodiversity, a contraction of ""biological diversity,"" generally refers to the variety and variability of life on Earth"	What term refers to the variety and variability of life on Earth?
Wilcox commissioned by the International Union for the Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources for the 1982 World National Parks Conference	Who commissioned the biodiversity research paper?
On the other hand, changes through the Phanerozoic correlate much better with the hyperbolic model than with exponential and logistic models	What model correlates much better than the hyperbolic model?
Interspecific crop diversity is, in part, responsible for offering variety in what we eat	What has some responsibility for offering variety in what we eat?
In absolute terms, the planet has lost 52% of its biodiversity since 1970 according to a 2014 study by the World Wildlife Fund	What percentage of biodiversity has the planet lost since 1970
A 2007 study conducted by the National Science Foundation found that biodiversity and genetic diversity are codependent—that diversity among species requires diversity within a species, and vice versa	In which year was the study published that found biodiversity and genetic diversity are codependent?
Finally, an introduced species may unintentionally injure a species that depends on the species it replaces	What may unintentionally injure a species that depends on the species it replaces?
The forests play a vital role in harbouring more than 45,000 floral and 81,000 faunal species of which 5150 floral and 1837 faunal species are endemic	What plays a vital role in harbouring floral and faunal species?
"Global agreements such as the Convention on Biological Diversity, give ""sovereign national rights over biological resources"" "	What global agreement gives sovereign national rights over biological resources?
Rapid environmental changes typically cause mass extinctions	What can typically cause mass extinctions?
The history of biodiversity during the Phanerozoic , starts with rapid growth during the Cambrian explosion—a period during which nearly every phylum of multicellular organisms first appeared	Which era included a rapid growth period?
"Jared Diamond describes an ""Evil Quartet"" of habitat destruction, overkill, introduced species, and secondary extinctions"	"Who describes the ""Evil Quartet""?"
Endemic species can be threatened with extinction through the process of genetic pollution, i	What can threaten endemic species with extinction?
5 billion years ago, during the Eoarchean Era after a geological crust started to solidify following the earlier molten Hadean Eon	What era contains the earliest undisputed evidence of life on Earth?
The fossil record suggests that the last few million years featured the greatest biodiversity in history	What suggests that the last few million years featured the greatest biodiversity in history?
Agricultural diversity can also be divided by whether it is ‘planned’ diversity or ‘associated’ diversity	What are two types of Agricultural diversity?
Biodiversity's relevance to human health is becoming an international political issue, as scientific evidence builds on the global health implications of biodiversity loss	What is becoming an international political issue?
Since life began on Earth, five major mass extinctions and several minor events have led to large and sudden drops in biodiversity	How many mass extinctions have happened since Life began on Earth?
The number of species invasions has been on the rise at least since the beginning of the 1900s	What century started the increase of species invasions?
Brazil's Atlantic Forest is considered one such hotspot, containing roughly 20,000 plant species, 1,350 vertebrates, and millions of insects, about half of which occur nowhere else	How many plant species does Brazil's Atlantic Forest contain?
"The existence of a ""global carrying capacity"", limiting the amount of life that can live at once, is debated, as is the question of whether such a limit would also cap the number of species"	What limits the amount of life that can live at once on Earth?
From 1950 to 2011, world population increased from 2	What year started the increase of population to 7 billion?
The control of associated biodiversity is one of the great agricultural challenges that farmers face	What is one of the great agricultural challenges that farmers face?
National park and nature reserve is the area selected by governments or private organizations for special protection against damage or degradation with the objective of biodiversity and landscape conservation	What types of parks receive special protection against damage or degradation?
In 2007, German Federal Environment Minister Sigmar Gabriel cited estimates that up to 30% of all species will be extinct by 2050	Who is the German Federal Environment Minister?
Habitat size and numbers of species are systematically related	What is systematically related to the numbers of species?
In cases such as the zebra mussel, invasion of US waterways was unintentional	What animal unintentionally invaded the US waterways?
"Contemporary biodiversity physics is ""firmly fixated on the visible world"""	What type of science is firmly fixated on the visible world?
The number and variety of plants, animals and other organisms that exist is known as biodiversity	What term describes the number and variety of plants, animals and other organisms in existence?
Dasmann in the year 1968 lay book A Different Kind of Country advocating conservation	What book first contained the term biological diversity?
Biodiversity provides critical support for drug discovery and the availability of medicinal resources	What provides critical support for drug discovery and the availability of medicinal resources?
In agriculture and animal husbandry, the Green Revolution popularized the use of conventional hybridization to increase yield	What popularized the use of conventional hybridization to increase yield?
Originally based on the English alphabet, ASCII encodes 128 specified characters into seven-bit integers as shown by the ASCII chart on the right	What is the ASCII based on?
The code itself was patterned so that most control codes were together, and all graphic codes were together, for ease of identification	Why was the code patterned so that most codes were together?
ASCII was incorporated into the Unicode character set as the first 128 symbols, so the 7-bit ASCII characters have the same numeric codes in both sets	ASCII was incorporated into what other character set?
When a Teletype 33 ASR equipped with the automatic paper tape reader received a Control-S , it caused the tape reader to stop; receiving Control-Q caused the tape reader to resume	What casued the automatic paper tape reader to stop?
"By the time so-called ""glass TTYs"" came along, the convention was so well established that backward compatibility necessitated continuing the convention"	What are glass TTYs also known as?
C trigraphs were created to solve this problem for ANSI C, although their late introduction and inconsistent implementation in compilers limited their use	What was created to solve the problem for ANSI C?
2 subcommittee designed ASCII based on the earlier teleprinter encoding systems	What was ASCII based on?
ASCII itself was first used commercially during 1963 as a seven-bit teleprinter code for American Telephone & Telegraph's TWX network	When was ASCII first commercially used?
"For example, character 10 represents the ""line feed"" function , and character 8 represents ""backspace"""	"What does the ""line feed"" function do?"
Some software assigned special meanings to ASCII characters sent to the software from the terminal	What did some software do to the ASCII characters?
Computers attached to the ARPANET included machines running operating systems such as TOPS-10 and TENEX using CR-LF line endings, machines running operating systems such as Multics using LF line endings, and machines running operating systems such as OS/360 that represented lines as a character count followed by the characters of the line and that used EBCDIC rather than ASCII	What do computers attached to the ARPANET use for line endings?
"From early in its development, ASCII was intended to be just one of several national variants of an international character code standard, ultimately published as ISO/IEC 646 , which would share most characters in common but assign other locally useful characters to several code points reserved for ""national use"	When was ISO/IEC 646 published?
Most early home computer systems developed their own 8-bit character sets containing line-drawing and game glyphs, and often filled in some or all of the control characters from 0–31 with more graphics	What did most early home computers develop?
ASCII , abbreviated from American Standard Code for Information Interchange, is a character-encoding scheme 	What does ASCII stand for?
The committee debated the possibility of a shift function , which would allow more than 64 codes to be represented by a six-bit code	Why did the committee debate adding a shift function?
"The ""escape"" character , for example, was intended originally to allow sending other control characters as literals instead of invoking their meaning"	"What was the ""escape"" character originally intended for?"
Older operating systems such as TOPS-10, along with CP/M, tracked file length only in units of disk blocks and used Control-Z to mark the end of the actual text in the file	What did older operating systems use to mark the end of the text?
ASCII developed from telegraphic codes	What was ASCII developed from? 
The committee voted to use a seven-bit code to minimize costs associated with data transmission	Why did the committee decide on 7bit instead?
4-1963, leaving 28 code positions without any assigned meaning, reserved for future standardization, and one unassigned control code	How many code positions were left unassigned for furture standardization?
Other international standards bodies have ratified character encodings such as ISO/IEC 646 that are identical or nearly identical to ASCII, with extensions for characters outside the English alphabet and symbols used outside the United States, such as the symbol for the United Kingdom's pound sterling 	What is a retified versionof ASCII?
Probably the most influential single device on the interpretation of these characters was the Teletype Model 33 ASR, which was a printing terminal with an available paper tape reader/punch option	What was the most influential device that interpretated the characters?
"The inherent ambiguity of many control characters, combined with their historical usage, created problems when transferring ""plain text"" files between systems"	Why were problems created when transferring files between systems?
"2 , the first typewriter with a shift key, and the shifted values of 23456789- were ""#$%_&' – early typewriters omitted 0 and 1, using O and l instead, but 1"	When was the first typewritter with a shift key created?
"Code 127 is officially named ""delete"" but the Teletype label was ""rubout"""	What is the official name of code 127?
Unfortunately, requiring two characters to mark the end of a line introduces unnecessary complexity and questions as to how to interpret each character when encountered alone	Why is adding two characters at the ned of a line problemsome? 
In the human digestive system, food enters the mouth and mechanical digestion of the food starts by the action of mastication , a form of mechanical digestion, and the wetting contact of saliva	What is the first step in the human digestive system?
Other animals, such as rabbits and rodents, practise coprophagia behaviours - eating specialised faeces in order to re-digest food, especially in the case of roughage	What is the practive of coprophagia behaviours?
There is a fundamental distinction between internal and external digestion	What are the two types of digestion?
Such elements as the Agrobacterium Ti or Ri plasmids contain elements that can transfer to plant cells	What elements can transfer to plant cells?
Teeth are small whitish structures found in the jaws of many vertebrates that are used to tear, scrape, milk and chew food	Where are teeth found?
The abomasum is the fourth and final stomach compartment in ruminants	What is the fourth and final stomach compartment in ruminants?
The mouth is surrounded by strong lips, which act like a hand to grab pieces of dead grass, leaves, and weeds, with bits of soil to help chew	What does an earthworm eat?
Digestion of some fats can begin in the mouth where lingual lipase breaks down some short chain lipids into diglycerides	Where does the digestions of some fats start?
Digestion is the breakdown of large insoluble food molecules into small water-soluble food molecules so that they can be absorbed into the watery blood plasma	What is digestion?
Different phases of digestion take place including: the cephalic phase , gastric phase, and intestinal phase	What are three digestions phases?
In a channel transupport system, several proteins form a contiguous channel traversing the inner and outer membranes of the bacteria	What happens in a chennel transupport system? 
In addition to the use of the multiprotein complexes listed above, Gram-negative bacteria possess another method for release of material: the formation of outer membrane vesicles	What other method does Gram-negative bacters use to release material?
Underlying the process is muscle movement throughout the system through swallowing and peristalsis	What muscle movements are used for digestion?
Digestion begins in the mouth with the secretion of saliva and its digestive enzymes	Where does digestion begin?
Lactase is an enzyme that breaks down the disaccharide lactose to its component parts, glucose and galactose	What is lactase?
After some time , the resulting thick liquid is called chyme	What is the resulting thick liquid called?
In mammals, preparation for digestion begins with the cephalic phase in which saliva is produced in the mouth and digestive enzymes are produced in the stomach	What is the firs phase in preparation for digestion in mammals?
Protein digestion occurs in the stomach and duodenum in which 3 main enzymes, pepsin secreted by the stomach and trypsin and chymotrypsin secreted by the pancreas, break down food proteins into polypeptides that are then broken down by various exopeptidases and dipeptidases into amino acids	Where does protein digestion occur?
Gymnasts sprint down a runway, which is a maximum of 25 meters in length, before hurdling onto a spring board	What is the maximum length of a runway?
According to FIG rules, only women compete in rhythmic gymnastics	What rules state that only women can compete in rhythmic gymastics?
"Aesthetic Group Gymnastics was developed from the Finnish ""naisvoimistelu"""	What does AGG stand for?
This apparatus may be made of hemp or a synthetic material which retains the qualities of lightness and suppleness	What is the rope made out of that the gymnists uses in their routine?
The Federation of International Gymnastics was founded in Liege in 1881	Where was the FIG founded?
In the vaulting events, gymnasts sprint down a 25 metres runway, jump onto a spring filled board or perform a roundoff, or handspring entry onto a springboard , land momentarily, inverted on the hands on the vaulting horse, or vaulting table , then propel themselves forward or backward, off of this platform to a two footed landing 	How long is the run way in vaulting?
A gymnast's score comes from deductions taken from their start value	How are gymnasts scored?
The technical rules for the Japanese version of men's rhythmic gymnastics came around the 1970s	When were the technical rules for the Japanses version of men's rhythmic gymnastics formed?
"The word gymnastics derives from the common Greek adjective γυμνός meaning ""naked"", by way of the related verb γυμνάζω , whose meaning is to train naked"", ""train in gymnastic exercise"", generally ""to train, to exercise"""	What does the verb gymnazo mean?
By 1954, Olympic Games apparatus and events for both men and women had been standardized in modern format, and uniform grading structures had been agreed upon	What year was the Olympic Games apparatus and events standardized?
A typical pommel horse exercise involves both single leg and double leg work	What does a typical pommel horse exercise consist of?
In a tumbling pass, dismount or vault, landing is the final phase, following take off and flight This is a critical skill in terms of execution in competition scores, general performance, and injury occurrence	What is a critical skill in terms of execution in scores?
Individual routines in trampolining involve a build-up phase during which the gymnast jumps repeatedly to achieve height, followed by a sequence of ten bounces without pause during which the gymnast performs a sequence of aerial skills	Individual routines start with what phases?
On the uneven bars, the gymnast performs a routine on two horizontal bars set at different heights	What are the uneven bars?
A higher flight phase results in a higher vertical ground reaction force	What does a higher flight phase result in?
Aerobic gymnastics involves the performance of routines by individuals, pairs, trios or groups up to 6 people, emphasizing strength, flexibility, and aerobic fitness rather than acrobatic or balance skills	What was aerobic gymnastics called orginally?
They perform synchronized, choreographed routines	What kind of routines do general gymnastic groups perform?
Gymnastics is a sport involving the performance of exercises requiring strength, flexibility, balance and control	What is gymnastics?
In the late eighteenth- and early nineteenth-century Germany, three pioneer physical educators – Johann Friedrich GutsMuths and Friedrich Ludwig Jahn – created exercises for boys and young men on apparatus they had designed that ultimately led to what is considered modern gymnastics	What did the exercises lead to?
In 2006, FIG introduced a new points system for Artistic gymnastics in which scores are no longer limited to 10 points	When did FIG decide that scores are no longer limited to 10 points?
"Today, the floor event occurs on a carpeted 12m × 12m square, usually consisting of hard foam over a layer of plywood, which is supported by springs or foam blocks generally called a ""spring"" floor"	What is the floor exercise events performed on now?
In tumbling, athletes perform an explosive series of flips and twists down a sprung tumbling track	What do athletes perform for tumbling?
Men's rhythmic gymnastics is related to both Men's artistic gymnastics and wushu martial arts	What are mens' rhythmic gymnastics related to?
In international club football, Barcelona has won five UEFA Champions League titles, a record four UEFA Cup Winners' Cup, a shared record five UEFA Super Cup, a record three Inter-Cities Fairs Cup and a record three FIFA Club World Cup trophies	How many UEFA Championship League titles has Barcelona won?
On 14 June 1925, in a spontaneous reaction against Primo de Rivera's dictatorship, the crowd in the stadium jeered the Royal March	In 1925 what incident by the crowd caused the closing of the stadium?
The 1973–74 season saw the arrival of Johan Cruyff, who was bought for a world record £920,000 from Ajax	How much did Barcelona pay to acquire Johan Cruyff?
Like Maradona, Ronaldo only stayed a short time before he left for Internazionale	How long did Ronaldo remain with Barcelona?
The same day, they registered 77 players across all categories and ages, and both last summer signings Arda Turan and Aleix Vidal became eligible to play with the first team	How many players did Barcelona list on the day their transfer ban ended?
Though it is the most played local derby in the history of La Liga, it is also the most unbalanced, with Barcelona overwhelmingly dominant	What team is dominate in won games in La Liga?
Barcelona is one of three founding members of the Primera División that have never been relegated from the top division, along with Athletic Bilbao and Real Madrid	Besides Barcelona and Real Madrid, what other team has remained in the Primera Division?
They have also won five UEFA Champions League, a record four UEFA Cup Winners' Cup, a shared record five UEFA Super Cup and a record three FIFA Club World Cup trophies	How many UEFA Champions League wins does Barcelona have?
On 6 August, Falangist soldiers near Guadarrama murdered club president Josep Sunyol, a representative of the pro-independence political party	Who was murdered on 6 August, 1936?
Under Cruyff's guidance, Barcelona won four consecutive La Liga titles from 1991 to 1994	How many consecutive La Liga titles did Barcelona win from 1991-94?
After the disappointment of the Gaspart era, the combination of a new young president, Joan Laporta, and a young new manager, former Dutch and Milan star Frank Rijkaard, saw the club bounce back	Under whose direction was there disappointment?
Barça beat Athletic Bilbao 4–1 in the 2009 Copa del Rey Final, winning the competition for a record-breaking 25th time	How many times did Barcelona win the Copa del Rey?
It was announced in summer of 2012 that Tito Vilanova, assistant manager at FC Barcelona, would take over from Pep Guardiola as manager	When did Tito Vilanova become manager of FC Barcelona?
In late December, Barcelona's appeal to the Court of Arbitration for Sport was unsuccessful and the original transfer ban was reinstated, leaving the club unable to utilise the 2015 winter and summer transfer windows	To whom did Barcelona appeal to lift the transfer bad?
In addition to membership, as of 2010 there are 1,335 officially registered fan clubs, called penyes, around the world	How many registered fan clubs does Barcelona have worldwide?
Barça's local rival has always been Espanyol	What team is Barcelona's local rival?
The club's original crest was a quartered diamond-shaped crest topped by the Crown of Aragon and the bat of King James, and surrounded by two branches, one of a laurel tree and the other a palm	What royal symbol appears on the club's crest?
In 1922, the number of supporters had surpassed 20,000 and by lending money to the club, Barça was able to build the larger Camp de Les Corts, which had an initial capacity of 20,000 spectators	What was the number of team Barcelona supporters by 1922?
On 16 March 1938, Barcelona came under aerial bombardment from the Italian Air Force, causing more than 3,000 deaths, with one of the bombs hitting the club's offices	When did the Italians bomb Barcelona?
In June 1982, Diego Maradona was signed for a world record fee of £5 million from Boca Juniors	How much was the signing payment for Diego Maradona?
"Founded in 1899 by a group of Swiss, English and Catalan footballers led by Joan Gamper, the club has become a symbol of Catalan culture and Catalanism, hence the motto ""Més que un club"" "	When was Barcelona founded?
In 1902, the club won its first trophy, the Copa Macaya, and participated in the first Copa del Rey, losing 1–2 to Bizcaya in the final	In what year did Barcelona win its first trophy? 
In 1943, Barcelona faced rivals Real Madrid in the semi-finals of Copa del Generalísimo 	What team won the first match in the 1943 Copa del Generalissimo?
The 1960s were less successful for the club, with Real Madrid monopolising La Liga	What team was dominate in the 1960s in La Liga?
Around this time, tensions began to arise between what was perceived as president Núñez's dictatorial rule and the nationalistic support group, Boixos Nois	What political group wanted Nunez to resign the presidency?
Despite being the favourites and starting strongly, Barcelona finished the 2006–07 season without trophies	How did Barcelona finish the 2006-07 season?
Later the same month, Barcelona won the UEFA Super Cup after defeating Porto 2–0 thanks to goals from Lionel Messi and Cesc Fàbregas	What competition did Barcelona win because of goals by Messi and Fabregas?
In April 2014, FIFA banned the club from buying players for the next two transfer windows following the violation of the FIFA's rules about the transfer of footballers aged under 18	When FIFA ban Barcelona from buying players?
On 11 August, Barcelona started the 2015–16 season winning a joint record fifth European Super Cup by beating Sevilla FC 5–4 in the 2015 UEFA Super Cup	Who did Barcelona beat to win the 2015 UEFA Super Cup?
The pinnacle of the league season arrived at the Santiago Bernabéu Stadium in a 3–0 win over Real Madrid	Where did Barcelona defeat Real Madrid for a trophy win in 2005-06?
During the dictatorships of Miguel Primo de Rivera and especially of Francisco Franco , all regional cultures were suppressed	What caused the suppression of regional cultures?
After Laporta's departure from the club in June 2010, Sandro Rosell was soon elected as the new president	Who was elected as president of the Barcelona club in 2010?
In 1918 Espanyol started a counter-petition against autonomy, which at that time had become a pertinent issue	When did Espanyol offer a counter-petition against autonomy?
FC Barcelona's all-time highest goalscorer in all competitions is Lionel Messi with 474 goals	What is Lionel Messi's goal total in all competitions?
Barcelona won the treble in the 2014–2015 season, winning La Liga, Copa del Rey and UEFA Champions League titles, and became the first European team to have won the treble twice	What team has won the treble competitions twice?
On 14 July 2006, the club announced a five-year agreement with UNICEF, which includes having the UNICEF logo on their shirts	What corporate sponsorship did Barcelona agree to in 2006? 
There is often a fierce rivalry between the two strongest teams in a national league, and this is particularly the case in La Liga, where the game between Barcelona and Real Madrid is known as El Clásico	What is the game between the rivals Barcelona and Real Madrid called?
In 1980, when the stadium was in need of redesign to meet UEFA criteria, the club raised money by offering supporters the opportunity to inscribe their name on the bricks for a small fee	Why did the stadium need to be redesigned in 1980?
Traditionally, Espanyol was seen by the vast majority of Barcelona's citizens as a club which cultivated a kind of compliance to the central authority, in stark contrast to Barça's revolutionary spirit	How was Espanyol viewed as being toward Spanish authority by the people of Barcelona?
The blue and red colours of the shirt were first worn in a match against Hispania in 1900	When were the blue and red colors worn for a game by Barcelona?
Back-to-back La Liga titles in 1948 and 1949 and the signing of László Kubala in June 1950, who would later go on to score 196 goals in 256 matches, drew larger crowds to the games	How many goals did Laszlo Kubala score in 256 matches?
Barcelona is one of the most supported teams in the world, and has the largest social media following in the world among sports teams	Which sports team has the world's largest social media following?
From the inaugural year in 1910 to 1913, Barcelona won the competition four consecutive times	How many times did Barcelona win the Pyrenees Cup?
In 1978, Josep Lluís Núñez became the first elected president of FC Barcelona, and, since then, the members of Barcelona have elected the club president	Who was the first elected president of the Barcelona club?
However, Barcelona fans were distraught by Figo's decision to join arch-rivals Real Madrid, and, during subsequent visits to the Camp Nou, Figo was given an extremely hostile reception	What team did favorite play Luis Figo leave Barcelona to join?
Two days later, it was announced that Luis Enrique would return to Barcelona as head coach, after he agreed to a two-year deal	Who returned to Barcelona as head coach?
The nickname culé for a Barcelona supporter is derived from the Catalan cul , as the spectators at the first stadium, Camp de la Indústria, sat with their culs over the stand	What is the nickname for a Barcelona supporter?
During the 1950s the rivalry was exacerbated further when there was a controversy surrounding the transfer of Alfredo di Stéfano, who finally played for Real Madrid and was key to their subsequent success	In 1950 what player was successful for Real Madrid?
In 2010, Forbes evaluated Barcelona's worth to be around €752 million , ranking them fourth after Manchester United, Real Madrid, and Arsenal, based on figures from the 2008–09 season	What did Forbes say Barcelona was worth in 2010?
In 2009, Barcelona became the first club in Spain to win the treble consisting of La Liga, Copa del Rey, and the Champions League	When did Barcelona become the first Spanish team to win the treble competitions?
Hoover began using wiretapping in the 1920s during Prohibition to arrest bootleggers	What tool did Hoover use to find bootleggers?
In March 1971, the residential office of an FBI agent in Media, Pennsylvania was burglarized by a group calling itself the Citizens' Commission to Investigate the FBI	Which group broke into an FBI office in Media, Pennsylvania?
From the end of the 1980s to the early 1990s, the FBI reassigned more than 300 agents from foreign counter-intelligence duties to violent crime, and made violent crime the sixth national priority	Did the FBI reassign agents from counter-intelligence to violent crime?
The 9/11 Commission's final report on July 22, 2004 stated that the FBI and Central Intelligence Agency were both partially to blame for not pursuing intelligence reports that could have prevented the September 11, 2001 attacks	What agencies were to blame for 9/11?
The Criminal Justice Information Services Division, is located in Clarksburg, West Virginia	Where is the CJIS located?
The FBI director is responsible for the day-to-day operations at the FBI	Who is responsible for day-to-day FBI operations?
The Uniform Crime Reports compile data from over 17,000 law enforcement agencies across the country	What compiles data from around 17,000 law enforcement agencies?
"FBI records show that 85% of COINTELPRO resources targeted groups and individuals that the FBI deemed ""subversive"", including communist and socialist organizations; organizations and individuals associated with the Civil Rights Movement, including Martin Luther King, Jr"	What percentage of COINTELPRO resources were targeted at FBI labeled subversive groups?
Although many of FBI's functions are unique, its activities in support of national security are comparable to those of the British MI5 and the Russian FSB	What is the FBI comparable to?
"The bureau's first official task was visiting and making surveys of the houses of prostitution in preparation for enforcing the ""White Slave Traffic Act,"" or Mann Act, passed on June 25, 1910"	What was the bureau's first task?
During the 1950s and 1960s, FBI officials became increasingly concerned about the influence of civil rights leaders, whom they believed had communist ties or were unduly influenced by them	When did the FBI become concerned about Civil Rights?
Beginning in the 1940s and continuing into the 1970s, the bureau investigated cases of espionage against the United States and its allies	When did the FBI begin investigating espionage?
"In 2003 a congressional committee called the FBI's organized crime informant program ""one of the greatest failures in the history of federal law enforcement"	When did a committee oppose the FBI's organized crime informant program?
Between 1993 and 1996, the FBI increased its counter-terrorism role in the wake of the first 1993 World Trade Center bombing in New York City, New York; the 1995 Oklahoma City bombing in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma; and the arrest of the Unabomber in 1996	When did the FBI increase it's counter-terrorism role?
was killed during the rescue effort while helping the rescue personnel evacuate the occupants of the South Tower and stayed when it collapsed	What tower was Leonard W. Hatton Jr attempting to evacuate?
On July 8, 2007 The Washington Post published excerpts from UCLA Professor Amy Zegart's book Spying Blind: The CIA, the FBI, and the Origins of 9/11	When did the Washington Post publish excerpts from the book Spying Blind?
The USA PATRIOT Act increased the powers allotted to the FBI, especially in wiretapping and monitoring of Internet activity	What increased the powers of the FBI?
Edgar Hoover Building until its completion in 1974	When did the FBI lab first appear?
In 2000, the FBI began the Trilogy project to upgrade its outdated information technology infrastructure	When did the FBI begin the Trilogy project?
If they fail their first qualification, they are issued either a Glock 17 or Glock 19, to aid in their next qualification	What are FBI special agents issued if they fail their first qualification?
146, preference-eligible veterans may apply after age 37	What group of people may apply to join the FBI after age 37?
The FBI has maintained files on numerous people, including celebrities such as Elvis Presley, Frank Sinatra, John Denver, John Lennon, Jane Fonda, Groucho Marx, Charlie Chaplin, the band MC5, Lou Costello, Sonny Bono, Bob Dylan, Michael Jackson, and Mickey Mantle	Did the FBI keep files on Elvis Presley?
In December 1994, after being tipped off by his former FBI handler about a pending indictment under the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act, Bulger fled Boston and went into hiding	Who tipped of Bulger?
In August 2007 Virgil Griffith, a Caltech computation and neural-systems graduate student, created a searchable database that linked changes made by anonymous Wikipedia editors to companies and organizations from which the changes were made	What was Virgil Griffith focused on?
On 20 February 2001, the bureau announced that a special agent, Robert Hanssen had been arrested for spying for the Soviet Union and then Russia from 1979 to 2001	When did the FBI announce Robert Hanssen's arrest?
The Federal Bureau of Investigation is the domestic intelligence and security service of the United States, which simultaneously serves as the nation's prime federal law enforcement organization	What agency is the domestic intelligence and security service for the US?
Edgar Hoover served as Director from 1924 to 1972, a combined 48 years with the BOI, DOI, and FBI	How many years was Hoover the FBI director?
Despite its domestic focus, the FBI also maintains a significant international footprint, operating 60 Legal Attache offices and 15 sub-offices in U	What kind of work was the FBI focused on?
In 1939, the Bureau began compiling a custodial detention list with the names of those who would be taken into custody in the event of war with Axis nations	When did the Bureau begin compiling a custodial detention list?
In response to organized crime, on August 25, 1953, the FBI created the Top Hoodlum Program	What was the Top Hoodlum Program a response to?
After Congress passed the Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act , the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act , and the Economic Espionage Act , the FBI followed suit and underwent a technological upgrade in 1998, just as it did with its CART team in 1991	What spurred the FBIs technological upgrade?
It analyzed the bullets with the goal of matching them chemically, not only to a single batch of ammunition coming out of a factory, but also to a single box of bullets	What precision did the FBI believe they could reach with chemical signatures?
The FBI's chief tool against organized crime is the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act	What is the FBI's main tool against organized crime?
Customs and Border Protection in seaport and airport security, and the National Transportation Safety Board in investigating airplane crashes and other critical incidents	When does the FBI work with the US Coast Guard and US Customs and Board Protection?
The FBI Academy, located in Quantico, Virginia, is home to the communications and computer laboratory the FBI utilizes	Where are agents sent to become FBI Special Agents?
The FBI frequently investigated Martin Luther King, Jr	Did the FBI investigate Martin Luther King Jr.?
The National Incident Based Reporting System crime statistics system aims to address limitations inherent in UCR data	What is the goal of the NIBRS?
The FBI also spied upon and collected information on Puerto Rican independence leader Pedro Albizu Campos and his Nationalist political party in the 1930s	What Puerto Rican leader did the FBI spy on?
The FBI is organized into functional branches and the Office of the Director, which contains most administrative offices	What office contains the FBI's administrative offices?
"Many specialized FBI functions are located at facilities in Quantico, Virginia, as well as a ""data campus"" in Clarksburg, West Virginia, where 96 million sets of fingerprints ""from across the United States are stored, along with others collected by American authorities from prisoners in Saudi Arabia and Yemen, Iraq and Afghanistan"	Where are specialized FBI functions located?
Carnivore was an electronic eavesdropping software system implemented by the FBI during the Clinton administration; it was designed to monitor email and electronic communications	What was the electronic eavesdropping system used by the FBI during the Clinton presidency?
FBI Directors are appointed by the President of the United States	Who appoints FBI directors?
The FBI has been frequently depicted in popular media since the 1930s	When did the FBI first appear in popular media?
During the period from 1993 to 2011, FBI agents fired their weapons on 289 occasions; FBI internal reviews found the shots justified in all but 5 cases, in none of the 5 cases were people wounded	How many times did FBI agents first their weapons from 1993 to 2011?
In 2005, fugitive Puerto Rican Nationalist leader Filiberto Ojeda Ríos died in a gun battle with FBI agents in 2005 in what some charged was an assassination	When did Puerto Rican Nationalist Filiberto Ojeda Ríos die?
According to the apocryphal Gospel of James, Mary was the daughter of Saint Joachim and Saint Anne	Who were Mary's parents?
The Gospel of Luke begins its account of Mary's life with the Annunciation, when the angel Gabriel appeared to her and announced her divine selection to be the mother of Jesus	Which angel appeared to Mary?
The Roman Catholic Church has dogmaically defined the doctrine of the Assumption, which was done in 1950 by Pope Pius XII in Munificentissimus Deus	When was the Assumption dogmatically define by the Catholic Church?
"After Mary continued in the ""blood of her purifying"" another 33 days for a total of 40 days, she brought her burnt offering and sin offering to the Temple in Jerusalem, so the priest could make atonement for her sins, being cleansed from her blood"	"How long in total was the ""blood of her purifying"" for Mary?"
According to the writer of Luke, Mary was a relative of Elizabeth, wife of the priest Zechariah of the priestly division of Abijah, who was herself part of the lineage of Aaron and so of the tribe of Levi	What was Zechariah's occupation?
"Mary is also depicted as being present among the women at the crucifixion during the crucifixion standing near ""the disciple whom Jesus loved"" along with Mary of Clopas and Mary Magdalene, to which list Matthew 27:56 adds ""the mother of the sons of Zebedee"", presumably the Salome mentioned in Mark 15:40"	Name the two women present with Mary at the Crucifixion of Jesus?
The adoption of the mother of Jesus as a virtual goddess may represent a reintroduction of aspects of the worship of Isis	Which Egyptian goddess do some scholars ascribe similarities to?
In the 19th century, a house near Ephesus in Turkey was found, based on the visions of Anne Catherine Emmerich, an Augustinian nun in Germany	In which country is Ephesus?
Both Roman Catholic and Orthodox Christians venerate images and icons of Mary, given that the Second Council of Nicaea in 787 permitted their veneration with the understanding that those who venerate the image are venerating the reality of the person it represents, and the 842 Synod of Constantinople confirming the same	In which year was the Second Council of Nicea?
Ephesus is a cultic centre of Mary, the site of the first Church dedicated to her and the rumoured place of her death	Where is the site of the first Church dedicated to Mary?
"Some titles have a Biblical basis, for instance the title Queen Mother has been given to Mary since she was the mother of Jesus, who was sometimes referred to as the ""King of Kings"" due to his lineage of King David"	"Jesus was known as the ""King of Kings"" because of his lieage from who?"
Despite Martin Luther's harsh polemics against his Roman Catholic opponents over issues concerning Mary and the saints, theologians appear to agree that Luther adhered to the Marian decrees of the ecumenical councils and dogmas of the church	Who wrote polemics regarding Roman Catholic beliefs about Mary?
While the Catholic Church celebrates the Feast of the Assumption on August 15, some Eastern Catholics celebrate it as Dormition of the Theotokos, and may do so on August 28, if they follow the Julian calendar	On what date does the Catholic Church celebrate the Feast of the Assumption?
In paintings, Mary is traditionally portrayed in blue	Which color is traditionally used to portray Mary in paintings?
"Nontrinitarians, such as Unitarians, Christadelphians and Jehovah's Witnesses also acknowledge Mary as the biological mother of Jesus Christ, but do not recognise Marian titles such as ""Mother of God"" as these groups generally reject Christ's divinity"	According to Nontrinitarian belief, what is Mary's relationship to Jesus?
The Qur'an relates detailed narrative accounts of Maryam in two places, Qur'an 3:35–47 and 19:16–34	By what name is Mary referred to in the Qur'an?
The term Ever-Virgin is applied in this case, stating that Mary remained a virgin for the remainder of her life, making Jesus her biological and only son, whose conception and birth are held to be miraculous	What term is used to describe the belief that Mary remained a virgin for her entire life?
Within the Orthodox tradition, the order of the saints begins with: The Theotokos, Angels, Prophets, Apostles, Fathers, Martyrs, etc	In Orthodox tradition, what comes next in precdence after The Theotokos in the order of the saints?
"The multiple churches that form the Anglican Communion and the Continuing Anglican movement have different views on Marian doctrines and venerative practices given that there is no single church with universal authority within the Communion and that the mother church understands itself to be both ""catholic"" and ""Reformed"""	What is the mother church of the Angican Communion?
Thus the idea of respect and high honor for Mary was not rejected by the first Protestants; but, they came to criticize the Roman Catholics for venerating Mary	For what practice did the first Protestants criticize the Roman Catholics?
As such, Methodists believe that Mary was conceived in her womb through the Holy Ghost and accept the doctrine of the Virgin Birth, although they, along with Orthodox Christians and other Protestant Christians, reject the doctrine of the Immaculate Conception	Which doctrine about Mary do Methodists reject?
"She is the only woman directly named in the Qur'an; declared to be a Sign of God to humanity; as one who ""guarded her chastity""; an obedient one; chosen of her mother and dedicated to Allah whilst still in the womb; uniquely Accepted into service by God; cared for by Zakariya ; that in her childhood she resided in the Temple and uniquely had access to Al-Mihrab , and was provided with heavenly ""provisions"" by God"	To whom was Mary dedicated while still in the womb?
In the 2nd century, as part of the earliest anti-Christian polemics, Celsus suggested that Jesus was the illegitimate son of a Roman soldier named Panthera	Who suggested that Jesus was the son of a Roman soldier?
"The Eastern and Oriental Orthodox, Roman Catholic, Anglican, and Lutheran Churches believe that Mary, as Mother of Jesus, is the Mother of God and the Theotokos, literally ""Giver of birth to God"""	What is the literal meaning of Theotokos?
"1:56] in Nazareth in Galilee, possibly with her parents, and during her betrothal — the first stage of a Jewish marriage — the angel Gabriel announced to her that she was to be the mother of the promised Messiah by conceiving him through the Holy Spirit, and she responded, ""I am the handmaid of the Lord"	What is the first stage of Jewish marriage?
"The Gospel of Matthew describes Mary as a virgin who fulfilled the prophecy of Isaiah 7:14, mistranslating the Hebrew word alma in Isaiah 7:14 as ""virgin"", though"	Which Gospel says that Mary fulfilled the prophecy of Isaiah?
" In the Catholic Church, Mary is accorded the title ""Blessed"", in recognition of her assumption to Heaven and her capacity to intercede on behalf of those who pray to her"	What title is given to Mary in the Catholic Church?
standing hymns) is devoted to Mary and it is often simply called the Akathist Hymn	What are Akathists?
"The Annunciation is called the ""Annunciation of our Lady"" in the 1662 Book of Common Prayer"	What is the name given to the Annunciation in the 1662 Book of Common Prayer?
", theologian Karl Barth wrote that ""the heresy of the Catholic Church is its Mariology"""	"Which theologian described Mariology as ""the heresy of the Catholic Church?"""
According to Biblical scholar Bart Ehrman the Hebrew word almah, meaning young woman of childbearing age, was translated into Greek as parthenos, which only means virgin, in Isaiah 7:14, which is commonly believed by Christians to be the prophecy of the Virgin Mary referred to in Matthew 1:23	Who do Christians believe is prophesized in Isaiah 7:14?
Whoever does the will of God is my brother, and sister, and mother'	"Who did Jesus say were his ""brother, and sister, and mother?"""
In Roman Catholic theology, the term hyperdulia is reserved for Marian veneration, latria for the worship of God, and dulia for the veneration of other saints and angels	What is the term used for veneration of Mary in Roman Catholic theology?
Mary is referred to by the Eastern Orthodox Church, Oriental Orthodoxy, the Anglican Church, and all Eastern Catholic Churches as Theotokos, a title recognized at the Third Ecumenical Council 	In what year did the Third Ecumenical Council occur in Ephesus?
The Latin Rite of the Roman Catholic Church has a liturgical feast by that name, kept on December 8	On what date is the feast of the Immaculate Conception in the Latin Rite of the Roman Catholic Church?
The Protoevangelium of James, an extra-canonical book, has been the source of many Orthodox beliefs on Mary	What book is considered to be the source of many Orthodox beliefs regarding Mary?
In the Islamic tradition, Mary and Jesus were the only children who could not be touched by Satan at the moment of their birth, for God imposed a veil between them and Satan	Which religion believes that God put a veil between Satan and Mary?
The story about Panthera is also found in the Toledot Yeshu, the literary origins of which can not be traced with any certainty and given that it is unlikely to go before the 4th century, it is far too late to include authentic remembrances of Jesus	Where in Jewish literature is the story about Panthera found?
According to ancient Jewish custom, Mary could have been betrothed at about 12, however, there is no direct evidence of Mary's age at betrothal or in pregnancy	How old was Mary when she met Joseph?
"Mary arrived at the house and greeted Elizabeth who called Mary ""the mother of my Lord"", and Mary spoke the words of praise that later became known as the Magnificat from her first word in the Latin version"	What language did Mary speak?
Roman Catholic, Eastern Orthodox, Oriental Orthodox, Anglican, and Lutherans venerate the Virgin Mary	Who did Jesus paint icons and carve statues of?
The main passenger airport serving the metropolis and the state is Melbourne Airport , which is the second busiest in Australia, and the Port of Melbourne is Australia's busiest seaport for containerised and general cargo	What airport serves Melbourne?
Between 1836 and 1842 Victorian Aboriginal groups were largely dispossessed[by whom	Between what year's did Victorian aboriginal groups dispossessed?
With the gold rush largely over by 1860, Melbourne continued to grow on the back of continuing gold mining, as the major port for exporting the agricultural products of Victoria, especially wool, and a developing manufacturing sector protected by high tariffs	When was the gold rush over in Melbourne?
Melbourne is the capital and most populous city in the Australian state of Victoria, and the second most populous city in Australia and Oceania	What is the most populas city in the Australian state of Victoria?
"A brash boosterism that had typified Melbourne during this time ended in the early 1890s with a severe depression of the city's economy, sending the local finance and property industries into a period of chaos during which 16 small ""land banks"" and building societies collapsed, and 133 limited companies went into liquidation"	When did severe depression hit Melbourne's city?
"An influx of interstate and overseas migrants, particularly Irish, German and Chinese, saw the development of slums including a temporary ""tent city"" established on the southern banks of the Yarra"	What term is given to the slums established on the souther banks of the Yarra?
The decade began with the Melbourne International Exhibition in 1880, held in the large purpose-built Exhibition Building	In what year was a telephone exchange established in Melbourne?
"This often occurs in the space of minutes and can be repeated many times in a day, giving Melbourne a reputation for having ""four seasons in one day"", a phrase that is part of local popular culture and familiar to many visitors to the city"	What weather phrase has become part of local popular culture in Melbourne and concerns the city's rapid change in weather?
Melbourne's CBD, compared with other Australian cities, has comparatively unrestricted height limits and as a result of waves of post-war development contains five of the six tallest buildings in Australia, the tallest of which is the Eureka Tower, situated in Southbank	What is the tallest tower in Australia?
There has been substantial international investment in the city's industries and property market	To what areas has Melbourne dedicated substantial international investment?
Melbourne is experiencing high population growth, generating high demand for housing	What is generating high demand for housing in Melbourne?
"It was named ""Melbourne"" by the Governor of New South Wales, Sir Richard Bourke, in honour of the British Prime Minister of the day, William Lamb, 2nd Viscount Melbourne"	Who was Melbourne named by?
In response to attribution of recent climate change, the City of Melbourne, in 2002, set a target to reduce carbon emissions to net zero by 2020 and Moreland City Council established the Zero Moreland program, however not all metropolitan municipalities have followed, with the City of Glen Eira notably deciding in 2009 not to become carbon neutral	In what year did Melbourne set a target to reduce carbon emissions to net zero?
The CBD is dominated by modern office buildings including the Rialto Towers , built on the site of several grand classical Victorian buildings, two of which — the Rialto Building designed by William Pitt and the Winfield Building designed by Charles D'Ebro and Richard Speight — still remain today and more recently hi-rise apartment buildings including Eureka Tower , which is listed as the 13th tallest residential building in the world in January 2014	Who designed the Rialto Building in 1889? 
In May and June 1835, the area which is now central and northern Melbourne was explored by John Batman, a leading member of the Port Phillip Association in Van Diemen's Land , who claimed to have negotiated a purchase of 600,000 acres with eight Wurundjeri elders	Tasmania was formerly known as what?
Melbourne is typical of Australian capital cities in that after the turn of the 20th century, it expanded with the underlying notion of a 'quarter acre home and garden' for every family, often referred to locally as the Australian Dream	What is locally referred to as the Australian Dream?
With the wealth brought on by the gold rush following closely on the heels of the establishment of Victoria as a separate colony and the subsequent need for public buildings, a program of grand civic construction soon began	When Victoria was established as a seperate colony, the need for what followed?
The city is home to significant writers' festivals, most notably the Melbourne Writers Festival	Which writer's festival is home to Melbourne?
"During a visit in 1885 English journalist George Augustus Henry Sala coined the phrase ""Marvellous Melbourne"", which stuck long into the twentieth century and is still used today by Melburnians"	Which phrase was coined by George Augustus Henry Sala during a visit to Melbourne in 1885?
Melbourne rates highly in education, entertainment, health care, research and development, tourism and sport, making it the world's most liveable city—for the fifth year in a row in 2015, according to the Economist Intelligence Unit	Melbourne is the world's most liveable city according to whom?
Of the top twenty high schools in Australia according to the Better Education ranking, six are located in Melbourne	How many of the top twenty high school sin Australia are located in Mebourne according to the Better Education ranking?
Height limits in the Melbourne CBD were lifted in 1958, after the construction of ICI House, transforming the city's skyline with the introduction of skyscrapers	In what year were height limits lifted in the Melbourne CBD?
Melbourne is notable as the host city for the 1956 Summer Olympic Games , along with the 2006 Commonwealth Games	In what year was Melbourne the host city for the first Olympic Games held in the southern hemisphere?
In 1836, Governor Bourke declared the city the administrative capital of the Port Phillip District of New South Wales, and commissioned the first plan for the city, the Hoddle Grid, in 1837	In what year was the first plan for the city commissioned?
In 2009, Melbourne was less affected by the Late-2000s financial crisis in comparison to other Australian cities	Was Melbourne more or less affected by the Late-2000s financial crisis in comparison to other Australian cities?
Two of the big four banks, NAB and ANZ, are headquartered in Melbourne	How many of the big four banks are headquartered in Melbourne?
The layout of the inner suburbs on a largely one-mile grid pattern, cut through by wide radial boulevards, and string of gardens surrounding the central city was largely established in the 1850s and 1860s	In what two decades was the layout of Melbourne's inner suburbs established?
Chinese is the second-most-common language spoken at home (3	What is the second-most-common language in Melborne?
This temperature differential is most pronounced in the spring and summer months and can cause very strong cold fronts to form	During which seasons are Melbourne's temperature differentials most pronounced?
Another recent environmental issue in Melbourne was the Victorian government project of channel deepening Melbourne Ports by dredging Port Phillip Bay—the Port Phillip Channel Deepening Project	Which government project aimed to deepen Melbourne ports by dredging?
In later years, with the rapid rise of motor vehicle ownership, the investment in freeway and highway developments greatly accelerated the outward suburban sprawl and declining inner city population	Investment in what greatly accelerated the outward suburban sprawn and declining inner city population?
The Melbourne rail network has its origins in privately built lines from the 1850s gold rush era, and today the suburban network consists of 209 suburban stations on 16 lines which radiate from the City Loop, a partially underground metro section of the network beneath the Central Business District 	How many lines does the Melbourne rail network have?
Deakin University maintains two major campuses in Melbourne and Geelong, and is the third largest university in Victoria	Which university maintains two major campuses in Melbourne and Geelong and is the third largest university in Victoria?
Melbourne is often referred to as Australia's garden city, and the state of Victoria was once known as the garden state	Which city is often referred to as Australia's garden city?
Relatively narrow streams of heavy showers can often affect the same places for an extended period, while the rest of Melbourne and surrounds stays dry	Which suburbs usually are affected by relatively narrow streams of heavy showers?
The local councils are responsible for providing the functions set out in the Local Government Act 1989 such as urban planning and waste management	Which act sets functions for Melbourne such as urban planning and waste management?
The Hoddle Grid (dimensions of 1 by 1⁄2 mile (1	What are the dimensions of the Hoddle Grid?
Goode House, a Neo Gothic building located on Collins Street designed by Wright, Reed & Beaver , William Pitt's Venetian Gothic style Old Stock Exchange , William Wardell's Gothic Bank which features some of Melbourne's finest interiors, the incomplete Parliament House, St Paul's Cathedral and Flinders Street Station , which was the busiest commuter railway station in the world in the mid-1920s	Which railway station was the busiest in the world in the mid-1920s?
Australian rules football and cricket are the most popular sports in Melbourne	What are the two most popular sports in Melbourne?
The Port of Melbourne is Australia's largest container and general cargo port and also its busiest	Which port is Australia's largest container and general cargo port?
Melbourne has an important ICT industry that employs over 60,000 people , with a turnover of $19	How many people are employed by the ICT industry in Melbourne?
Melbourne's population could overtake that of Sydney by 2037 or 2039, according to the first scenario projected by the ABS; primarily due to larger levels of internal migration losses assumed for Sydney	Melbourne's population could overtake that of Sydney by 2037 or 2039 primarily due to what factor?
Melbourne's live performance institutions date from the foundation of the city, with the first theatre, the Pavilion, opening in 1841	Which theatre was Melbourne's first live performance institution?
Three daily newspapers serve Melbourne: the Herald Sun , The Age and The Australian 	How many daily newspapers serve Melbourne?
The city is home to many professional franchises/teams in national competitions including: cricket clubs Melbourne Stars, Melbourne Renegades and Victorian Bushrangers, which play in the Big Bash League and other domestic cricket competitions; soccer clubs Melbourne Victory and Melbourne City FC , which play in the A-League competition, both teams play their home games at AAMI Park, with the Victory also playing home games at Etihad Stadium	When did Melbourne Heart become known as Melbourne City FC?
Like many Australian cities, Melbourne has a high dependency on the automobile for transport, particularly in the outer suburban areas where the largest number of cars are bought, with a total of 3	Does Melbourne have a high or low dependency on the automobile?
After a trend of declining population density since World War II, the city has seen increased density in the inner and western suburbs, aided in part by Victorian Government planning, such as Postcode 3000 and Melbourne 2030 which have aimed to curtail urban sprawl	What have Postcode 3000 and Melbourne 2030 aimed to do?
Television shows are produced in Melbourne, most notably Neighbours, Kath & Kim, Winners and Losers, Offspring, Underbelly , House Husbands, Wentworth and Miss Fisher's Murder Mysteries, along with national news-based programs such as The Project, Insiders and ABC News Breakfast	Where are Million Dollar Minute and Family Feud based?
Melbourne has four airports	How many airports does Melbourne have?
Flinders Street Station was the world's busiest passenger station in 1927 and Melbourne's tram network overtook Sydney's to become the world's largest in the 1940s, at which time 25% of travellers used public transport but by 2003 it had declined to just 7	Which rail station was the world's busiest passenger station in 1927?
Water storage and supply for Melbourne is managed by Melbourne Water, which is owned by the Victorian Government	Who manages the water storage and supply for Melbourne?
The discovery of gold in Victoria in mid 1851 led to the Victorian gold rush, and Melbourne, which served as the major port and provided most services for the region, experienced rapid growth	Melbourne experienced rapid growth after 1851 due to the discovery of what?
The first federal parliament was convened on 9 May 1901 in the Royal Exhibition Building, subsequently moving to the Victorian Parliament House where it was located until 1927, when it was moved to Canberra	On what date was the first federal parliament convened?
"As the centre of Australia's ""rust belt"", Melbourne experienced an economic downturn between 1989 to 1992, following the collapse of several local financial institutions"	During which years did Melbourne experience an economic downturn?
The Little River, and the township of the same name, marks the border between Melbourne and neighbouring Geelong city	Which body of water and township of the same name marks the border between Melbourne and Geelong?
Melbourne's air quality is generally good and has improved significantly since the 1980s	Has Melbourne's air quality improved or declined since the 1980s?
The climate, waterfront location and nightlife make it one of the most vibrant destinations in Australia	Which factors make Melbourne one of the moust vibrant destinations in Australia?
The Story of the Kelly Gang, the world's first feature film, was shot in Melbourne in 1906	What was the world's first feature film?
Free standing dwellings with relatively large gardens are perhaps the most common type of housing outside inner city Melbourne	What are the most common type of housing outside inner city Melbourne?
Melbourne has a highly diversified economy with particular strengths in finance, manufacturing, research, IT, education, logistics, transportation and tourism	In which areas does Melbourne's diversified economy have strengths?
Melbourne has the largest Greek-speaking population outside of Europe, a population comparable to some larger Greek cities like Larissa and Volos	Which city has the largest Greek-speaking population outside of Europe?
Swinburne University has campuses in Malaysia, while Monash has a research centre based in Prato, Italy	Which Melbourne based university has campuses in Malaysia?
Youth alternatives include ABC Triple J and youth run SYN	What are examples of Youth radio stations?
Melbourne has the largest tram network in the world which had its origins in the city's 1880s land boom	What are the origins of Melbourne's tram network?
John was born to Henry II of England and Eleanor of Aquitaine on 24 December 1166	When was John born?
In 1173 John's elder brothers, backed by Eleanor, rose in revolt against Henry in the short-lived rebellion of 1173 to 1174	Who backed John's elder brothers?
After Richard's death on 6 April 1199 there were two potential claimants to the Angevin throne: John, whose claim rested on being the sole surviving son of Henry II, and young Arthur I of Brittany, who held a claim as the son of John's elder brother Geoffrey	When did Richard die?
Hugh did exactly this in 1201 and Philip summoned John to attend court in Paris in 1202, citing the Le Goulet treaty to strengthen his case	When did Philip summon John to attend court?
"John's predecessors had ruled using the principle of vis et voluntas, or ""force and will"", taking executive and sometimes arbitrary decisions, often justified on the basis that a king was above the law"	What principle did John's predecessors use?
At the start of John's reign there was a sudden change in prices, as bad harvests and high demand for food resulted in much higher prices for grain and animals	What happened at the start of John's reign?
John, the youngest of five sons of King Henry II of England and Eleanor of Aquitaine, was at first not expected to inherit significant lands	Who was Henry's favorite child?
The character of John's relationship with his second wife, Isabella of Angoulême, is unclear	Who was John's second wife?
When war with France broke out again in 1202, John achieved early victories, but shortages of military resources and his treatment of Norman, Breton and Anjou nobles resulted in the collapse of his empire in northern France in 1204	When did war with France break out?
Baronial unrest in England prevented the departure of the planned 1205 expedition, and only a smaller force under William Longespée deployed to Poitou	What prevented the departure of the planned 1205 expedition?
Henry the Young King had been crowned King of England in 1170, but was not given any formal powers by his father; he was also promised Normandy and Anjou as part of his future inheritance	When was Henry crowned King of England?
John grew up to be around 5 ft 5 in (1	How tall was John?
When the Archbishop of Canterbury, Hubert Walter, died on 13 July 1205, John became involved in a dispute with Pope Innocent III that would lead to the king's excommunication	When did Hubert Walter die?
In 1185 John made his first visit to Ireland, accompanied by 300 knights and a team of administrators	When did John make his first visit to Ireland?
Henry the Young King fought a short war with his brother Richard in 1183 over the status of England, Normandy and Aquitaine	Who did Henry fight a short war with in 1183?
Under mounting political pressure, John finally negotiated terms for a reconciliation, and the papal terms for submission were accepted in the presence of the papal legate Pandulf Verraccio in May 1213 at the Templar Church at Dover	When were the papal terms for submission accepted?
John began to explore an alliance with the French king Philip II, freshly returned from the crusade	Who did John explore an alliance with?
Longchamp refused to work with Puiset and became unpopular with the English nobility and clergy	Who refused to work with Puiset?
They congregated at Northampton in May and renounced their feudal ties to John, appointing Robert fitz Walter as their military leader	Where did the rebel barons congregate?
The new peace would only last for two years; war recommenced in the aftermath of John's decision in August 1200 to marry Isabella of Angoulême	How long did the new peace last?
After his coronation, John moved south into France with military forces and adopted a defensive posture along the eastern and southern Normandy borders	John moved south into where?
The rebel barons responded by inviting the French prince Louis to lead them: Louis had a claim to the English throne by virtue of his marriage to Blanche of Castile, a granddaughter of Henry II	The rebel barons invited who to lead them?
He attempted to convince Pope Innocent III to intervene in the conflict, but Innocent's efforts were unsuccessful	Who did John attempt to convince?
John's position in France was considerably strengthened by the victory at Mirebeau, but John's treatment of his new prisoners and of his ally, William de Roches, quickly undermined these gains	What victory strengthened John's position?
In the aftermath of John's death William Marshal was declared the protector of the nine-year-old Henry III	Who was declared the protector of Henry III after John's death?
One of John's principal challenges was acquiring the large sums of money needed for his proposed campaigns to reclaim Normandy	What was one of John's principal challenges?
The administration of justice was of particular importance to John	What was of particular importance to John?
In the 1940s, new interpretations of John's reign began to emerge, based on research into the record evidence of his reign, such as pipe rolls, charters, court documents and similar primary records	When did new interpretations of John's reign begin to emerge?
John was deeply suspicious of the barons, particularly those with sufficient power and wealth to potentially challenge the king	John was deeply suspicious of who?
In the Norman period, suffering the king's ill-will meant difficulties in obtaining grants, honours or petitions; Henry II had infamously expressed his fury and ill-will towards Thomas Becket; this ultimately resulted in Becket's death	Who did Henry II express his fury and ill-will towards?
John spent much of 1205 securing England against a potential French invasion	John spent much of 1205 doing what?
During the remainder of his reign, John focused on trying to retake Normandy	John focused on trying to retake what?
John remained Lord of Ireland throughout his reign	John remained what throughout his reign?
In the late 12th and early 13th centuries the border and political relationship between England and Scotland was disputed, with the kings of Scotland claiming parts of what is now northern England	When was the political relationship between England and Scotland disputed?
"John treated the interdict as ""the equivalent of a papal declaration of war"""	John treated the interdict as what?
He complained both about the choice of Langton as an individual, as John felt he was overly influenced by the Capetian court in Paris, and about the process as a whole	John felt Langton was overly influenced by what?
John besieged the castle of Roche-au-Moine, a key stronghold, forcing Louis to give battle against John's larger army	John besieged what castle?
In 1214 John began his final campaign to reclaim Normandy from Philip	When did John begin his final campaign to reclaim Normandy?
The rebels made the first move in the war, seizing the strategic Rochester Castle, owned by Langton but left almost unguarded by the archbishop	Who made the first move in the war?
Neither John nor the rebel barons seriously attempted to implement the peace accord	Who suspected that the proposed baronial council would be unacceptable?
The king returned west but is said to have lost a significant part of his baggage train along the way	What did the king lose on his way to the west?
In September 1216 John began a fresh, vigorous attack	When did John begin a fresh, vigorous attack?
In the 16th century political and religious changes altered the attitude of historians towards John	When did political and religious changes alter the attitude of historians towards John?
"Nineteenth-century fictional depictions of John were heavily influenced by Sir Walter Scott's historical romance, Ivanhoe, which presented ""an almost totally unfavourable picture"" of the king; the work drew on Victorian histories of the period and on Shakespeare's play"	What heavily influenced nineteenth-century fictional depictions of John?
One group of chroniclers wrote early in John's life, or around the time of his accession, including Richard of Devizes, William of Newburgh, Roger of Hoveden and Ralph de Diceto	Which historians wrote early in John's life?
Popular representations of John first began to emerge during the Tudor period, mirroring the revisionist histories of the time	When did popular representations of John begin to emerge?
Contemporary chroniclers were mostly critical of John's performance as king, and his reign has since been the subject of significant debate and periodic revision by historians from the 16th century onwards	Who was critical of John's performance as king?
Henry II wanted to secure the southern borders of Aquitaine and decided to betroth his youngest son to Alais, the daughter and heiress of Humbert III of Savoy	Henry II wanted to secure the southern borders of what?
In 1195 John successfully conducted a sudden attack and siege of Évreux castle, and subsequently managed the defences of Normandy against Philip	When did John successfully conduct a sudden attack and siege of Evreux castle?
Unfortunately, Isabella was already engaged to Hugh of Lusignan, an important member of a key Poitou noble family and brother of Count Raoul of Eu, who possessed lands along the sensitive eastern Normandy border	Who was Isabella engaged to?
In late 1203, John attempted to relieve Château Gaillard, which although besieged by Philip was guarding the eastern flank of Normandy	What did John attempt to relieve in late 1203?
 John levied scutage payments eleven times in his seventeen years as king, as compared to eleven times in total during the reign of the preceding three monarchs	How many times did John levi scutage payments?
It was common for kings and nobles of the period to keep mistresses, but chroniclers complained that John's mistresses were married noblewomen, which was considered unacceptable	Many of John's mistresses were what?
By the end of 1204 he had around 50 large galleys available; another 54 vessels were built between 1209 and 1212	How many galleys were available by the end of 1204?
Royal power in Wales was unevenly applied, with the country divided between the marcher lords along the borders, royal territories in Pembrokeshire and the more independent native Welsh lords of North Wales	Where did John visit every year between 1204 and 1211?
Monastic communities were allowed to celebrate Mass in private from 1209 onwards, and late in 1212 the Holy Viaticum for the dying was authorised	Where were Monastic communities allowed to celebrate Mass in private?
John held a council in London in January 1215 to discuss potential reforms and sponsored discussions in Oxford between his agents and the rebels during the spring	Where did John hold a council in January 1215?
In November John retook Rochester Castle from rebel baron William d'Aubigny in a sophisticated assault	When did John retake Rochester Castle?
John's illness grew worse and by the time he reached Newark Castle he was unable to travel any farther; John died on the night of 18 October	When did John die?
"Kate Norgate, for example, argued that John's downfall had been due not to his failure in war or strategy, but due to his ""almost superhuman wickedness"", whilst James Ramsay blamed John's family background and his cruel personality for his downfall"	Who blamed John's family background for his cruel personality?
John lost the duchy of Normandy to King Philip II of France, which resulted in the collapse of most of the Angevin Empire and contributed to the subsequent growth in power of the Capetian dynasty during the 13th century	John lost the duchy of Normandy to who?
Eleanor then left for Poitiers, the capital of Aquitaine, and sent John and his sister Joan north to Fontevrault Abbey	Where did Eleanor leave to?
John had spent the conflict travelling alongside his father, and was given widespread possessions across the Angevin empire as part of the Montlouis settlement; from then onwards, most observers regarded John as Henry II's favourite child, although he was the furthest removed in terms of the royal succession	John spent the conflict traveling alongside who?
When John's elder brother Richard became king in September 1189, he had already declared his intention of joining the Third Crusade	When did Richard become king?
Warfare in Normandy at the time was shaped by the defensive potential of castles and the increasing costs of conducting campaigns	Warfare in Normandy was shaped by what?
Accompanied by William de Roches, his seneschal in Anjou, he swung his mercenary army rapidly south to protect her	Who accompanied John?
John inherited a sophisticated system of administration in England, with a range of royal agents answering to the Royal Household: the Chancery kept written records and communications; the Treasury and the Exchequer dealt with income and expenditure respectively; and various judges were deployed to deliver justice around the kingdom	What did John inherit in England?
John's royal household was based around several groups of followers	John's royal household was based around what?
John's lack of religious conviction has been noted by contemporary chroniclers and later historians, with some suspecting that John was at best impious, or even atheistic, a very serious issue at the time	Historians suspected that John was at best what?
During the truce of 1206–1208, John focused on building up his financial and military resources in preparation for another attempt to recapture Normandy	What did John do during the truce of 1206-1208?
John wanted John de Gray, the Bishop of Norwich and one of his own supporters, to be appointed Archbishop of Canterbury after the death of Walter, but the cathedral chapter for Canterbury Cathedral claimed the exclusive right to elect Walter's successor	Who did John want to be appointed Archbishop of Canterbury?
"Many of the disaffected barons came from the north of England; that faction was often labelled by contemporaries and historians as ""the Northerners"""	Where did many of the disaffected barons come from?
John met the rebel leaders at Runnymede, near Windsor Castle, on 15 June 1215	When did John meet the rebel leaders at Runnymede?
Prince Louis intended to land in the south of England in May 1216, and John assembled a naval force to intercept him	When did Prince Louis int to land in the south of England?
John's first wife, Isabel, Countess of Gloucester, was released from imprisonment in 1214; she remarried twice, and died in 1217	When was Isabel released from imprisonment?
Most historians today, including John's recent biographers Ralph Turner and Lewis Warren, argue that John was an unsuccessful monarch, but note that his failings were exaggerated by 12th- and 13th-century chroniclers	What biographers argue that John was an unsuccessful monarch?
The Macintosh, however, was expensive, which hindered its ability to be competitive in a market already dominated by the Commodore 64 for consumers, as well as the IBM Personal Computer and its accompanying clone market for businesses	What hindered the competetive ability of Apple when it was introduced?
Smith's first Macintosh board was built to Raskin's design specifications: it had 64 kilobytes of RAM, used the Motorola 6809E microprocessor, and was capable of supporting a 256×256-pixel black-and-white bitmap display	How much RAM did the first Maciuntosh board have?
"5 million purchasing all 39 advertising pages in a special, post-election issue of Newsweek, and ran a ""Test Drive a Macintosh"" promotion, in which potential buyers with a credit card could take home a Macintosh for 24 hours and return it to a dealer afterwards"	What was the name of the big promotion Apple ran in the special edition of Newsweek?
The Mac Plus was an immediate success and remained in production, unchanged, until October 15, 1990; on sale for just over four years and ten months, it was the longest-lived Macintosh in Apple's history	What was the longest-lived Macintosh in Apple's history while it was in production?
With the new Motorola 68030 processor came the Macintosh IIx in 1988, which had benefited from internal improvements, including an on-board MMU	What Macintosh first included an on-board MMU?
As for Mac OS, System 7 was a 32-bit rewrite from Pascal to C++ that introduced virtual memory and improved the handling of color graphics, as well as memory addressing, networking, and co-operative multitasking	Which Mac is known for improving the handling of color graphics?
When Steve Jobs returned to Apple in 1997 following the company's purchase of NeXT, he ordered that the OS that had been previewed as version 7	Who returned to Apple in 1997?
6, though its dated architecture made replacement necessary	What did dated architecture on the Mac OS line make necessary?
The Macintosh is the only mainstream computer platform to have successfully transitioned to a new CPU architecture, and has done so twice	What is the only mainstream computer platform to successfully transition to a new CPU architecture?
The most common workaround, is to boot into Mac OS and then to hand over control to a Mac OS-based bootloader application	Which technique was once used to boot an alternate operating system than Mac OS?
In 1982, Regis McKenna was brought in to shape the marketing and launch of the Macintosh	Who was brought in to shape the marketing of Macintosh in 1982?
Compaq, who had previously held the third place spot among PC manufacturers during the 1980s and early-mid 1990s, initiated a successful price war in 1994 that vaulted them to the biggest by the year end, overtaking a struggling IBM and relegating Apple to third place	Who initiated a successful price war among PC manufacturers in 1994?
As of October 2006, research firms IDC and Gartner reported that Apple's market share in the U	Who are IDC and Gartner?
The Macintosh SE was released at the same time as the Macintosh II for $2900 , as the first compact Mac with a 20 MB internal hard drive and an expansion slot	When was the Macintosh SE released at the same time as?
This has been attributed, in part, to the success of the iPod and the iPhone, a halo effect whereby satisfied iPod or iPhone owners purchase more Apple products, and Apple has since capitalized on that with the iCloud cloud service that allows users to seamlessly sync data between these devices and Macs	What is partially credited for the significant boost in sales of Macs in recent years?
In response, Apple introduced a range of relatively inexpensive Macs in October 1990	What did Apple introduce in 1990 to combat competition from smartphones?
Starting in 2006, Apple's industrial design shifted to favor aluminum, which was used in the construction of the first MacBook Pro	When did Apple begin to favor aluminum in their design?
The Macintosh project was begun in 1979 by Jef Raskin, an Apple employee who envisioned an easy-to-use, low-cost computer for the average consumer	Who began the Macintosh project in 1979?
"After the Lisa's announcement, John Dvorak discussed rumors of a mysterious ""MacIntosh"" project at Apple in February 1983"	"Who discussed rumors of a mysterious ""MacIntosh"" project in 1983?"
The Macintosh is a series of personal computers designed, developed, and marketed by Apple Inc	When was the Macintosh branded as Mac?
In 1985, the combination of the Mac, Apple's LaserWriter printer, and Mac-specific software like Boston Software's MacPublisher and Aldus PageMaker enabled users to design, preview, and print page layouts complete with text and graphics—an activity to become known as desktop publishing	When was the activity of desktop publishing first used?
Raskin was authorized to start hiring for the project in September 1979, and he immediately asked his long-time colleague, Brian Howard, to join him	What year was Raskin hired by Apple?
Apple now sits in the number five spot, with a global market share of about 6% during 2014, behind Lenovo, HP, Dell and Acer	What ranking was Apple in the PC global market share during 2014?
In 1987, Apple spun off its software business as Claris	In 1987, what did Apple spin off its software business as?
"Two days after ""1984"" aired, the Macintosh went on sale, and came bundled with two applications designed to show off its interface: MacWrite and MacPaint"	"What two applications came bundled with Macs 2 days after ""1984"" was aired?"
Apple has generally dominated the premium PC market, having a 91 percent market share for PCs priced at more than $1,000 in 2009, according to NPD	According to NPD, who has generally dominated the premium PC market?
The Macintosh's minimal memory became apparent, even compared with other personal computers in 1984, and could not be expanded easily	What part of the Mac's could not be expanded easily in 1984?
In 1988, Apple sued Microsoft and Hewlett-Packard on the grounds that they infringed Apple's copyrighted GUI, citing the use of rectangular, overlapping, and resizable windows	On what grounds did Apple sue Microsoft and Hewlett-Packard in 1988?
Furthermore, Apple had created too many similar models that confused potential buyers	What did Apple's creation of too many similar models do to potential buyers?
In early 2001, Apple began shipping computers with CD-RW drives and emphasized the Mac's ability to play DVDs by including DVD-ROM and DVD-RAM drives as standard	When did Apple begin shipping computers with CD-RW drives?
It was not long until Apple released their first portable computer, the Macintosh Portable in 1989	What was the name of Apple's first portable computer?
In 2001, Apple introduced Mac OS X, based on Darwin and NEXTSTEP; its new features included the Dock and the Aqua user interface	What was Apple's Mac OS X based on?
In 2000, Apple released the Power Mac G4 Cube, their first desktop since the discontinued Power Macintosh G3, to slot between the iMac G3 and the Power Mac G4	What desktop did Apple release after the discontinued Power Macintosh G3?
Historically, Mac OS X enjoyed a near-absence of the types of malware and spyware that affect Microsoft Windows users	Historically, what is near-absent in Mac OS X compared to Microsoft Windows?
By March 2011, the market share of OS X in North America had increased to slightly over 14%	What was the market share of OS X in North America by March 2011?
In 1989, Jean-Louis Gassée had steadfastly refused to lower the profit margins on Mac computers, then there was a component shortage that rocked the exponentially-expanding PC industry that year, forcing Apple USA head Allan Loren to cut prices which dropped Apple's margins	Who refused to lower the profit margins on Mac computers in 1989?
Starting in 2002, Apple moved to eliminate CRT displays from its product line as part of aesthetic design and space-saving measures with the iMac G4	What did Apple begin to eliminate in 2002?
The sales breakdown of the Macintosh have seen sales of desktop Macs stayed mostly constant while being surpassed by that of Mac notebooks whose sales rate has grown considerably; seven out of ten Macs sold were laptops in 2009, a ratio projected to rise to three out of four by 2010	In 2009, how many Macs sold were laptops?
In 1998, after the return of Steve Jobs, Apple consolidated its multiple consumer-level desktop models into the all-in-one iMac G3, which became a commercial success and revitalized the brand	What did Apple consolidate in 1998?
Raskin left the team in 1981 over a personality conflict with Jobs	Why did Raskin leave the Apple team in 1981?
"Jobs stated during the Macintosh's introduction ""we expect Macintosh to become the third industry standard"", after the Apple II and IBM PC"	What did Jobs state that he expected Macintosh to become?
Updated Motorola CPUs made a faster machine possible, and in 1987 Apple took advantage of the new Motorola technology and introduced the Macintosh II at $5500, powered by a 16 MHz Motorola 68020 processor	Whose technology did Apple take advantage of when introducing the Macintosh II?
"0 was released in May 1990, and according to a common saying at the time ""Windows was not as good as Macintosh, but it was good enough for the average user"""	When Microsfot Windows 3.0 was released, what was it commonly said to not be as good as?
Intel had tried unsuccessfully to push Apple to migrate the Macintosh platform to Intel chips	What did Intel unsuccessfully try to push Apple to migrate to?
Its translucent plastic case, originally Bondi blue and later various additional colors, is considered an industrial design landmark of the late 1990s	What color was Apples new iMac, which was introduced in 1998?
Apple discontinued the use of PowerPC microprocessors in 2006	When did Apple discontinue the use of PowerPC microprocessors?
Apple was initially reluctant to embrace mice with multiple buttons and scroll wheels	Who was initially reluctant to embrace mice with multiple buttons and scroll wheels?
Following the release of Intel-based Macs, third-party platform virtualization software such as Parallels Desktop, VMware Fusion, and VirtualBox began to emerge	What type of software began to emerge following the release of Intel-based Macs?
8 million MacBooks in Q2 2012 compared to 500,000 total Ultrabooks, although there were dozens of Ultrabooks from various manufacturers on the market while Apple only offered 11-inch and 13-inch models of the MacBook Air	What has been the best-selling ultra-portable over Windows Ultrabooks in the U.S.?
"Anti-aircraft warfare or counter-air defence is defined by NATO as ""all measures designed to nullify or reduce the effectiveness of hostile air action"	What is another term for anti-aircraft warfare?
"Non-English terms for air defence include the German Flak , whence English flak, and the Russian term Protivovozdushnaya oborona , a literal translation of ""anti-air defence"", abbreviated as PVO"	What is the Russian term for air defence?
Initially sensors were optical and acoustic devices developed during the First World War and continued into the 1930s, but were quickly superseded by radar, which in turn was supplemented by optronics in the 1980s	When were sensors initially developed?
The most extreme case was the Soviet Union, and this model may still be followed in some countries: it was a separate service, on a par with the navy or ground force	Which country had the most severe case?
On 30 September 1915, troops of the Serbian Army observed three enemy aircraft approaching Kragujevac	When did Serbian troops notice enemy aircraft approaching Kragujevac? 
The problem was of successfully aiming a shell to burst close to its target's future position, with various factors affecting the shells' predicted trajectory	What was the problem with AA gunnery?
World War I demonstrated that aircraft could be an important part of the battlefield, but in some nations it was the prospect of strategic air attack that was the main issue, presenting both a threat and an opportunity	What showed that aircraft could be a significant contribution to the battlefield?
From the early 1930s eight countries developed radar, these developments were sufficiently advanced by the late 1930s for development work on sound locating acoustic devices to be generally halted, although equipment was retained	How many different countries developed radar starting in the 1930s?
Until this time the British, at RAF insistence, continued their World War I use of machine guns, and introduced twin MG mountings for AAAD	Who wanted the British to keep using machine guns in World War I?
During the 1930s solid fuel rockets were under development in the Soviet Union and Britain	What was under development in both the Soviet Union and Britain in the 1930s?
The British had already arranged licence building of the Bofors 40 mm, and introduced these into service	What did the British get a license to build?
The interceptor aircraft is a type of fighter aircraft designed specifically to intercept and destroy enemy aircraft, particularly bombers, usually relying on high speed and altitude capabilities	What kind of aircraft is used to intercept and destroy other aircraft?
Another potential weapon system for anti-aircraft use is the laser	What is another possible weapon for anti-aircraft use?
Area air defence, the air defence of a specific area or location, , have historically been operated by both armies and Air Forces 	What is the air defence of a certain area called?
The term air defence was probably first used by Britain when Air Defence of Great Britain was created as a Royal Air Force command in 1925	Which country probably coined the term air defence?
The essence of air defence is to detect hostile aircraft and destroy them	What is the first purpose of air defence?
"Passive air defence is defined by NATO as ""Passive measures taken for the physical defence and protection of personnel, essential installations and equipment in order to minimize the effectiveness of air and/or missile attack"""	What does NATO define as passive measures to protect people, buildings and equipment from air or missile attacks?
The basic air defence unit is typically a battery with 2 to 12 guns or missile launchers and fire control elements	How many guns or missile launchers are typically in a battery?
Before the war it was recognised that ammunition needed to explode in the air	It was understood that ammunition needed to explode where?
Two assumptions underpinned the British approach to HAA fire; first, aimed fire was the primary method and this was enabled by predicting gun data from visually tracking the target and having its height	What was the primary method for HAA fire?
The US ended World War I with two 3-inch AA guns and improvements were developed throughout the inter-war period	What kind of guns did the United States end WW I with?
In some countries, such as Britain and Germany during the Second World War, the Soviet Union and NATO's Allied Command Europe, ground based air defence and air defence aircraft have been under integrated command and control	Which country's air defence and aircraft has been under integrated command and control?
However, while the shell was a bit light it had a good effective ceiling and fired 125 rounds per minute; an AA carriage was developed and it entered service in 1939	How many rounds did this cannon fire per second?
Germany's high-altitude needs were originally going to be filled by a 75 mm gun from Krupp, designed in collaboration with their Swedish counterpart Bofors, but the specifications were later amended to require much higher performance	High altitude needs in Germany were going to be handled by what?
A plethora of anti-aircraft gun systems of smaller calibre were available to the German Wehrmacht combined forces, and among them the 1940-origin Flakvierling quadruple-20 mm-gun antiaircraft weapon system was one of the most often-seen weapons, seeing service on both land and sea	What was one of the most often seen weapons that was used both on land and sea?
Another aspect of anti-aircraft defence was the use of barrage balloons to act as physical obstacle initially to bomber aircraft over cities and later for ground attack aircraft over the Normandy invasion fleets	What acted as a physical obstacle to anti-aircraft defence?
The maximum distance at which a gun or missile can engage an aircraft is an important figure	What is an important number when it comes to guns engaging an aircraft?
As this process continued, the missile found itself being used for more and more of the roles formerly filled by guns	The missile started being used more often instead of what weapon?
Unlike the heavier guns, these smaller weapons are in widespread use due to their low cost and ability to quickly follow the target	Smaller weapons are able to be used because of their low cost as well as what other factor?
Smaller boats and ships typically have machine-guns or fast cannons, which can often be deadly to low-flying aircraft if linked to a radar-directed fire-control system radar-controlled cannon for point defence	What kind of weapons can usually be found on smaller boats and ships?
Rocket-propelled grenades can be—and often are—used against hovering helicopters (e	What type of weapon can be used against hovering helicopters?
"The British adopted ""effective ceiling"", meaning the altitude at which a gun could deliver a series of shells against a moving target; this could be constrained by maximum fuse running time as well as the gun's capability"	What term is used to describe the altitude for a gun to shoot shells against a target that is moving?
Until the 1950s guns firing ballistic munitions were the standard weapon; guided missiles then became dominant, except at the very shortest ranges	What was the standard weapon until the 1950s?
The British recognised the need for anti-aircraft capability a few weeks before World War I broke out; on 8 July 1914, the New York Times reported that the British government had decided to 'dot the coasts of the British Isles with a series of towers, each armed with two quick-firing guns of special design,' while 'a complete circle of towers' was to be built around 'naval installations' and 'at other especially vulnerable points	When did the British see the need to add anti-aircraft capability?
In Britain and some other armies, the single artillery branch has been responsible for both home and overseas ground-based air defence, although there was divided responsibility with the Royal Navy for air defence of the British Isles in World War I	Who provided part of the air defence of the British Isles in WWI
The British dealt with range measurement first, when it was realised that range was the key to producing a better fuse setting	What helped with better fuse setting?
By the early 20th century balloon, or airship, guns, for land and naval use were attracting attention	What kind of guns started attracting attention?
The British Army adopted the 13-pounder quickly producing new mountings suitable for AA use, the 13-pdr QF 6 cwt Mk III was issued in 1915	What anti-aircraft gun did the British Army begin to use?
The Treaty of Versailles prevented Germany having AA weapons, and for example, the Krupps designers joined Bofors in Sweden	What treaty was supposed to stop Germany from having antiaircraft weapons?
Both France and UK introduced tachymetric devices to track targets and produce vertical and horizontal deflection angles	What did the tachymetric devices do?
Poland's AA defences were no match for the German attack and the situation was similar in other European countries	Poland and other European countries could not defend against what?
6-inch, in 1918	When was the successful test of the 3.6-inch HAA gun?
Service trials demonstrated another problem however: that ranging and tracking the new high-speed targets was almost impossible	What was shown to be practically not possible during service trials?
Rheinmetall in Germany developed an automatic 20 mm in the 1920s and Oerlikon in Switzerland had acquired the patent to an automatic 20 mm gun designed in Germany during World War I	In the 1920s, which company developed the automatic 20 mm?
"The Germans developed massive reinforced concrete blockhouses, some more than six stories high, which were known as Hochbunker ""High Bunkers"" or ""Flaktürme"" flak towers, on which they placed anti-aircraft artillery"	What were the large blockhouses called that the Germans developed?
US efforts continued into the 1950s with the 75 mm Skysweeper system, an almost fully automated system including the radar, computers, power, and auto-loading gun on a single powered platform	What US system was created in the 1950s that included radar and computers?
The solution was automation, in the form of a mechanical computer, the Kerrison Predictor	What was the name of the mechanical computer that used automation?
Although the firearms used by the infantry, particularly machine guns, can be used to engage low altitude air targets, on occasion with notable success, their effectiveness is generally limited and the muzzle flashes reveal infantry positions	What did the muzzle flashes of the firearms used by the infantry reveal?
Some nations started rocket research before World War II, including for anti-aircraft use	Rocket research began prior to which war in some countries?
The introduction of the guided missile resulted in a significant shift in anti-aircraft strategy	Which weapon caused a major shift in anti-aircraft strategy?
The future of projectile based weapons may be found in the railgun	Where can the future of projectile based weapons possibly be found?
The ammunition and shells fired by these weapons are usually fitted with different types of fuses to explode close to the airborne target, releasing a shower of fast metal fragments	What are two types of fuses used for shells?
Air defence in naval tactics, especially within a carrier group, is often built around a system of concentric layers with the aircraft carrier at the centre	Air defence in such places as a carrier group are built around what?
"If current trends continue, missiles will replace gun systems completely in ""first line"" service"	What is likely to entirely replace gun systems?
Most modern air defence systems are fairly mobile	Contemporary air defence systems are usually what?
Most Western and Commonwealth militaries integrate air defence purely with the traditional services, of the military (i	What military forces usually integrate air defnce as a separate arm or part of artillery?
Armies typically have air defence in depth, from integral MANPADS such as the RBS 70, Stinger and Igla at smaller force levels up to army-level missile defence systems such as Angara and Patriot	What do armies tend to have in depth?
Israel, and The US Air Force, in conjunction with the members of NATO, has developed significant tactics for air defence suppression	In agreement with NATO members, the US Air Force and which country has created tactics for air defence suppression?
""" In some armies the term All-Arms Air Defence is used for air defence by non-specialist troops"	What does AAAD stand for?
Throughout the 20th century air defence was one of the fastest-evolving areas of military technology, responding to the evolution of aircraft and exploiting various enabling technologies, particularly radar, guided missiles and computing 	What was one of the quickest areas to evolve in military technology in the 20th century?
Batteries are usually grouped into battalions or equivalent	How are batteries typically grouped?
German air attacks on the British Isles increased in 1915 and the AA efforts were deemed somewhat ineffective, so a Royal Navy gunnery expert, Admiral Sir Percy Scott, was appointed to make improvements, particularly an integrated AA defence for London	Air attacks headed by Germany increased in 1915 in what area?
As aircraft started to be used against ground targets on the battlefield, the AA guns could not be traversed quickly enough at close targets and, being relatively few, were not always in the right place , so changed positions frequently	What was many times unpopular with other troops?
In 1925 the British adopted a new instrument developed by Vickers	What year did the British adopt the new Vickers instrument?
After the Dambusters raid in 1943 an entirely new system was developed that was required to knock down any low-flying aircraft with a single hit	When year did the Dambusters raid happen?
AAA battalions were also used to help suppress ground targets	What was also utilized to control ground targets?
The allies' most advanced technologies were showcased by the anti-aircraft defence against the German V-1 cruise missiles 	What did advanced ally technology showcase it could defend against?
In the 1982 Falklands War, the Argentine armed forces deployed the newest west European weapons including the Oerlikon GDF-002 35 mm twin cannon and SAM Roland	In what war did the armed forces from Argentina use the SAM Roland?
Larger SAMs may be deployed in fixed launchers, but can be towed/re-deployed at will	What can be deployed in fixed launchers but re-deploy at will?
However, as stealth technology grows, so does anti-stealth technology	What continues to grow along with stealth technology?
"Sanskrit or saṃskṛta, originally saṃskṛtā vāk, ""refined speech"") is the primary sacred language of Hinduism, a philosophical language in Buddhism, Hinduism, Sikhism and Jainism, and a literary language that was in use as a lingua franca in Greater India"	Sanskrit is the primary sacred language of which religion?
Sudharma, a daily newspaper in Sanskrit, has been published out of Mysore, India, since 1970, while Sanskrit Vartman Patram and Vishwasya Vrittantam started in Gujarat during the last five years	In what year was the daily newspaper Sudharma first published?
Sanskrit, as the learned language of Ancient India, thus existed alongside the vernacular Prakrits, which were Middle Indo-Aryan languages	In Ancient India, which vernacular languages existed alongside Sanskrit?
Roughly contemporary with the Brahmi, Kharosthi was used in the northwest of the subcontinent	What types of script was used to write Sanskrit in the northwest part of Indai?
Similarly, Philippine languages such as Tagalog have some Sanskrit loanwords, although more are derived from Spanish	Tagalog is what kind of language?
A significant form of post-Vedic Sanskrit is found in the Sanskrit of Indian epic poetry—the Ramayana and Mahabharata	What are two examples of epic poetry written in Sanskrit?
From the Rigveda until the time of Pāṇini the development of the early Vedic language can be observed in other Vedic texts: the Samaveda, Yajurveda, Atharvaveda, Brahmanas, and Upanishads	When was the time of Panini?
"Sheldon Pollock argues that ""most observers would agree that, in some crucial way, Sanskrit is dead"""	Who has said the Sanskrit is dead?
The CBSE of India, along with several other state education boards, has made Sanskrit an alternative option to the state's own official language as a second or third language choice in the schools it governs	To what has the Central Board of Education of India relegated Sanskrit? 
St James Junior School in London, England, offers Sanskrit as part of the curriculum	What English school offers Sanskrit as a language study?
Sanskrit originated in an oral society, and the oral tradition was maintained through the development of early classical Sanskrit literature	Under what type of tradition did Sanskrit begin?
Since the late 18th century, Sanskrit has been transliterated using the Latin alphabet	From what time has the Latin alphabet been used to transcribe Sanskrit?
Sanskrit has also influenced Sino-Tibetan languages through the spread of Buddhist texts in translation	What in the use of Sanskrit has influenced Sino-Tibetan languages?
"Sanskrit has greatly influenced the languages of India that grew from its vocabulary and grammatical base; for instance, Hindi is a ""Sanskritised register"" of the Khariboli dialect"	What language has influenced the languages of India?
The earliest known inscriptions in Sanskrit date to the first century BCE	From when are the earliest dated Sanskrit inscriptions?
The Sanskrit grammatical tradition, Vyākaraṇa, one of the six Vedangas, began in the late Vedic period and culminated in the Aṣṭādhyāyī of Pāṇini, which consists of 3990 sutras (ca	What is the Sanskrit grammatical tradition?
Sanskrit, as defined by Pāṇini, evolved out of the earlier Vedic form	According to Panini, from where did Sanskrit evolve?
In order to explain the common features shared by Sanskrit and other Indo-European languages, many scholars have proposed the Indo-Aryan migration theory, asserting that the original speakers of what became Sanskrit arrived in what is now India and Pakistan from the north-west some time during the early second millennium BCE	When is it thought that early speakers of Sanskrit came to India?
Many Sanskrit dramas also indicate that the language coexisted with Prakrits, spoken by multilingual speakers with a more extensive education	What form of speech shows that Sanskrit and Prakrits existed together?
Samskrita Bharati is an organisation working for Sanskrit revival	What organization is trying to revive Sanskrit?
Orientalist scholars of the 18th century like Sir William Jones marked a wave of enthusiasm for Indian culture and for Sanskrit	When was Sanskrit and Indian culture popular?
Satyagraha, an opera by Philip Glass, uses texts from the Bhagavad Gita, sung in Sanskrit	Who wrote an opera in Sanskrit?
Valencia ), or València ), is the capital of the autonomous community of Valencia and the third largest city in Spain after Madrid and Barcelona, with around 800,000 inhabitants in the administrative centre	What country is Valencia in?
The city's economy is service-oriented, as nearly 84% of the working population is employed in service sector occupations	What is the main type of employment in Valencia?
Valencia Airport is situated 9 km (5	What airport is closest to Valencia?
The Paseo Marítimo, a 4 km long palm tree-lined promenade was constructed along the beaches of the north side of the port 	What promenade was built north of Valencia's port?
The English held the city for 16 months and defeated several attempts to expel them	How long did the English occupy Valencia?
The city remained in the hands of Christian troops until 1102, when the Almoravids retook the city and restored the Muslim religion	In what year did Christian troops lose control of Valencia?
The 15th century was a time of Islamic economic expansion, known as the Valencian Golden Age, in which culture and the arts flourished	When was the Valencian Golden Age?
The vicereine Germaine of Foix brutally repressed the uprising and its leaders, and this accelerated the authoritarian centralisation of the government of Charles I	Who suppressed agermanats' uprising?
The silk industry had disappeared, but there was a large production of hides and skins, wood, metals and foodstuffs, this last with substantial exports, particularly of wine and citrus	What were Valencia's main food exports in the early 20th century?
In the warmest month – August, the maximum temperature during the day typically ranges from 28–34 °C , about 23 °C at night	Which month is the hottest in Valencia?
The Valencian economy recovered during the 18th century with the rising manufacture of woven silk and ceramic tiles	When was the age of Enlightenment?
The dictatorship of Franco forbade political parties and began a harsh ideological and cultural repression countenanced and sometimes even led by the Church	Whose regime prohibited political parties?
Valencia's port is the biggest on the Mediterranean western coast, the first of Spain in container traffic as of 2008 and the second of Spain in total traffic, handling 20% of Spain's exports	What percentage of Spanish exports does Valencia's port handle?
A fervent follower of the absolutist cause, Elío had played an important role in the repression of the supporters of the Constitution of 1812	Who helped repress the supporters of the Constitution and was later executed for it?
On 9 July 2006, during Mass at Valencia's Cathedral, Our Lady of the Forsaken Basilica, Pope Benedict XVI used, at the World Day of Families, the Santo Caliz, a 1st-century Middle-Eastern artifact that some Catholics believe is the Holy Grail	What is the name of the cup that some Catholics think is the Grail?
During the Cantonal Revolution of 1873, a cantonalist uprising that took place during the First Spanish Republic, the city was consolidated with most of the nearby cities in the Federal Canton of Valencia 	In what year did the cantonalist uprising occur?
World-renowned architect Santiago Calatrava produced the futuristic City of Arts and Sciences , which contains an opera house/performing arts centre, a science museum, an IMAX cinema/planetarium, an oceanographic park and other structures such as a long covered walkway and restaurants	Who designed the City of Arts and Sciences?
Valencia is a bilingual city: Valencian and Spanish are the two official languages	How many official languages does Valencia have?
Valencia has experienced a surge in its cultural development during the last thirty years, exemplified by exhibitions and performances at such iconic institutions as the Palau de la Música, the Palacio de Congresos, the Metro, the City of Arts and Sciences , the Valencian Museum of Enlightenment and Modernity , and the Institute of Modern Art 	During what period has Valencia had a cultural surge?
Among the parish churches are Saints John , rebuilt in 1368, whose dome, decorated by Palonino, contains some of the best frescoes in Spain; El Templo , the ancient church of the Knights Templar, which passed into the hands of the Order of Montesa and was rebuilt in the reigns of Ferdinand VI and Charles III; the former convent of the Dominicans, at one time the headquarters of the Capital General, the cloister of which has a beautiful Gothic wing and the chapter room, large columns imitating palm trees; the Colegio del Corpus Christi, which is devoted to the Blessed Sacrament, and in which perpetual adoration is carried on; the Jesuit college, which was destroyed in 1868 by the revolutionary Committee of the Popular Front, but later rebuilt; and the Colegio de San Juan , the former college of the nobles, now a provincial institute for secondary instruction	What church holds some of Spain's greatest frescoes?
With the Byzantine invasion of the southwestern Iberian peninsula in 554 the city acquired strategic importance	When did the Byzantines invade the Iberian peninsula?
In the 15th century the dome was added and the naves extended back of the choir, uniting the building to the tower and forming a main entrance	When was the dome built?
In 1238, King James I of Aragon, with an army composed of Aragonese, Catalans, Navarrese and crusaders from the Order of Calatrava, laid siege to Valencia and on 28 September obtained a surrender	What ruler attacked Valencia in 1238?
, the Regional Exhibition of 1909, the 32nd and the 33rd America's Cup competitions, the European Grand Prix of Formula One auto racing, the Valencia Open 500 tennis tournament, and the Global Champions Tour of equestrian sports	Which America's Cup competitions did Valencia host?
Abd al-Rahman I, the first emir of Cordoba, ordered the city destroyed in 755 during his wars against other nobility, but several years later his son, Abdullah, had a form of autonomous rule over the province of Valencia	Who commanded that Valencia be destroyed?
Some of the most emblematic buildings of the city were built during this period, including the Serranos Towers , the Lonja , the Miguelete and the Chapel of the Kings of the Convent of Santo Domingo	When were the Serranos Towers constructed?
The decline of the city reached its nadir with the War of Spanish Succession that marked the end of the political and legal independence of the Kingdom of Valencia	What war took place from 1702-1709?
The mutineers seized the Citadel, a Supreme Junta government took over, and on 26–28 June, Napoleon's Marshal Moncey attacked the city with a column of 9,000 French imperial troops in the First Battle of Valencia	Who attacked Valencia with French soldiers but failed to capture it?
The crisis deepened during the 17th century with the expulsion in 1609 of the Jews and the Moriscos, descendants of the Muslim population that converted to Christianity under threat of exile from Ferdinand and Isabella in 1502	What people group was descended from Muslim converts to Christianity?
This economic boom corresponded with a revival of local traditions and of the Valencian language, which had been ruthlessly suppressed from the time of Philip V	Who had suppressed the Valencian language?
During the regency of Maria Cristina, Espartero ruled Spain for two years as its 18th Prime Minister from 16 September 1840 to 21 May 1841	Who was Spain's 18th Prime Minister?
43 people were killed and more than ten were seriously injured	How many people died when the Valencia metro derailed?
During the 20th century Valencia remained the third most populous city of Spain as its population tripled, rising from 213,550 inhabitants in 1900 to 739,014 in 2000	What was Valencia's population in 2000?
On 6 November 1936 the city became the capital of Republican Spain under the control of the prime minister Manuel Azana; the government moved to the Palau de Benicarló, its ministries occupying various other buildings	Who was prime minister in 1936?
In April 2013, the television program Salvados questioned the official version of the incident as there were indications that the Valencian Government had tried to downplay the accident, which coincided with the visit of the pope to Valencia, or even to hide evidence, as the book of train breakdowns was never found	What TV program questioned the official account of the crash?
In 1409, a hospital was founded and placed under the patronage of Santa María de los Inocentes; to this was attached a confraternity devoted to recovering the bodies of the unfriended dead in the city and within a radius of three miles (4	Who was the hospital's patroness?
, which won the Spanish league in 2002 and 2004 , for a total of six times, and was a UEFA Champions League runner-up in 2000 and 2001	When did Valencia C.F. win the UEFA Cup?
Valencia was founded as a Roman colony in 138 BC	When was Valencia's founding?
The Albufera, a freshwater lagoon and estuary about 11 km south of the city, is one of the largest lakes in Spain	How far from Valencia is the Albufera?
The third largest city in Spain and the 24th most populous municipality in the European Union, Valencia has a population of 809,267 within its administrative limits on a land area of 134	How many inhabitants live within Valencia's limits?
About two thousand Roman colonists were settled there in 138 BC during the rule of consul Decimus Junius Brutus Galaico	Who was the ruler of Valencia in 138 BC?
The Castilian nobleman Rodrigo Diaz de Vivar, known as El Cid, who was intent on possessing his own principality on the Mediterranean, entered the province in command of a combined Christian and Moorish army and besieged the city beginning in 1092	What was El Cid's real name?
On the one hand were the decimation of the population by the Black Death of 1348 and subsequent years of epidemics — and on the other, the series of wars and riots that followed	When did Valencia suffer from the Black Death?
This manifested early in 1519–1523 when the artisan guilds known as the Germanies revolted against the government of the Habsburg king Charles I in Valencia, now part of the Crown of Aragon, with most of the fighting done in 1521	Whose government did the guilds rebel against?
With the abolition of the charters of Valencia and most of its institutions, and the conformation of the kingdom and its capital to the laws and customs of Castile, top civil officials were no longer elected, but instead were appointed directly from Madrid, the king's court city, the offices often filled by foreign aristocrats	What type of people often held Valencia's offices?
Ferdinand refused and went to Valencia instead of Madrid	Where did Ferdinand go rather than Madrid?
The public water supply network was completed in 1850, and in 1858 the architects Sebastián Monleón Estellés, Antonino Sancho, and Timoteo Calvo drafted a general expansion project for the city that included demolishing its ancient walls 	When were plans for city expansion drawn?
With the advent of democracy in Spain, the ancient kingdom of Valencia was established as a new autonomous entity, the Valencian Community, the Statute of Autonomy of 1982 designating Valencia as its capital	When democracy began in Spain, what did the kingdom of Valencia become?
The largest plaza in Valencia is the Plaza del Ayuntamiento; it is home to the City Hall on its western side and the central post office on its eastern side, a cinema that shows classic movies, and many restaurants and bars	Where is Valencia's City Hall located?
, See), and by virtue of the papal concession of 16 October 1866, it was called the Basilica Metropolitana	What was the Valencia Cathedral called from 1866?
The final race in 2012 European Grand Prix saw an extremely popular winner, since home driver Fernando Alonso won for Ferrari in spite of starting halfway down the field	Who won the last race of the European Grand Prix in 2012?
It has been said that GE got into computer manufacturing because in the 1950s they were the largest user of computers outside the United States federal government, aside from being the first business in the world to own a computer	During which decade did GE start manufacuring computers?
During 1889, Thomas Edison had business interests in many electricity-related companies: Edison Lamp Company, a lamp manufacturer in East Newark, New Jersey; Edison Machine Works, a manufacturer of dynamos and large electric motors in Schenectady, New York; Bergmann & Company, a manufacturer of electric lighting fixtures, sockets, and other electric lighting devices; and Edison Electric Light Company, the patent-holding company and the financial arm backed by J	What was the name of the lamp manufacturer in East Newark which Thomas Edison an interest in?
Since over half of GE's revenue is derived from financial services, it is arguably a financial company with a manufacturing arm	What is the business source of the majority of GE's revenues?
"The changes included a new corporate color palette, small modifications to the GE logo, a new customized font and a new slogan, ""Imagination at work"", composed by David Lucas, to replace the slogan ""We Bring Good Things to Life"" used since 1979"	"Who composed GE's slogan ""Imagination at work?""?"
Based on year 2000 data, researchers at the Political Economy Research Institute listed the corporation as the fourth-largest corporate producer of air pollution in the United States, with more than 4	Based on year 2000 data, where is GE ranked among the largest corporate producers of air pollution in the US?
General Electric was formed through the 1892 merger of Edison General Electric Company of Schenectady, New York, and Thomson-Houston Electric Company of Lynn, Massachusetts, with the support of Drexel, Morgan & Co	In what year was General Electric formed?
From circa 1932 until 1977, General Electric polluted the Housatonic River with PCBs discharges from the General Electric plant at Pittsfield, Massachusetts	Which river did GE pollute with PCBs from its plant in Pittsfield, MA?
Since entering the renewable energy industry in 2002, GE has invested more than $850 million in renewable energy commercialization	In what year did GE enter the renewable energy industry?
"In May 2005, GE announced the launch of a program called ""Ecomagination,"" intended, in the words of CEO Jeff Immelt ""to develop tomorrow's solutions such as solar energy, hybrid locomotives, fuel cells, lower-emission aircraft engines, lighter and stronger durable materials, efficient lighting, and water purification technology"""	When did GE announce its Ecoimagination program?
 Led by Sanford Alexander Moss, GE introduced the first superchargers during World War I, and continued to develop them during the Interwar period	Who led GE's effort to build the first turbosupercharges during World War I?
General Electric heavily contaminated the Hudson River with polychlorinated biphenyls between 1947-77	In what time period did GE pollute the Hudson River with PCBs?
As of October 2008, the scheme had resulted in 70 green products being brought to market, ranging from halogen lamps to biogas engines	How many green products did GE bring to market via its Ecoimagination program as of October 2008?
Short Films, Big Ideas was launched at the 2011 Toronto International Film Festival in partnership with cinelan	What was the name of the project introduced by GE at the 2011 Toronto International Fils Festival?
In April 2014, it was announced that GE was in talks to acquire the global power division of French engineering group Alstom for a figure of around $13 billion	When did GE announce it was in talks to acquire the French engineering group Alstom?
GE is a multinational conglomerate headquartered in Fairfield, Connecticut	Where is GE's headquarters located?
In 1983, New York State Attorney General Robert Abrams filed suit in the United States District Court for the Northern District of New York to compel GE to pay for the cleanup of what was claimed to be more than 100,000 tons of chemicals dumped from their plant in Waterford, New York	Which New York State Attorney General filed suit in US District Court to force GE to pay for the cleanup of chemicals dumped by their plant in Waterford, NY?
The Continental Army was created on 14 June 1775 by the Continental Congress as a unified army for the colonies to fight Great Britain, with George Washington appointed as its commander	When was the Continental Army created?
While American forces had been stationed in the Republic of Vietnam since 1959, in intelligence & advising/training roles, they did not deploy in large numbers until 1965, after the Gulf of Tonkin Incident	What year did American forces start being stationed in Vietnam?
"During World War I, the ""National Army"" was organized to fight the conflict, replacing the concept of U"	What was organized to replace the concept of U.S. Volunteers?
The Chief of Staff of the Army, who is the highest-ranked military officer in the army, serves as the principal military adviser and executive agent for the Secretary of the Army, i	Who is the highest-ranked military officer in the army?
The United States Army is the largest branch of the United States Armed Forces and performs land-based military operations	What branch of the USA Armed Forces is the largest?
The War of 1812, the second and last American war against the United Kingdom, was less successful for the U	The War of 1812 consisted of the U.S against whom?
After the war, though, the Continental Army was quickly given land certificates and disbanded in a reflection of the republican distrust of standing armies	What political party did not have trust in standing armies?
Collective training at the unit level takes place at the unit's assigned station, but the most intensive training at higher echelons is conducted at the three combat training centers ; the National Training Center at Fort Irwin, California, the Joint Readiness Training Center at Fort Polk, Louisiana, and the Joint Multinational Training Center at the Hohenfels Training Area in Hohenfels, Germany	Where is the National Training Center located?
Its eastern armies fought well, but the western armies were defeated one after another until the Union forces captured New Orleans in 1862 along with the Tennessee River	In what year did the Union Forces capture New Orleans?
The end of World War II set the stage for the East–West confrontation known as the Cold War	What war occurred after the end of World War II?
The United States joined World War II in December 1941 after the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor	What month and year did the U.S. join World War II?
The Total Force Policy was adopted by Chief of Staff of the Army General Creighton Abrams in the aftermath of the Vietnam War and involves treating the three components of the army – the Regular Army, the Army National Guard and the Army Reserve as a single force	Who adopted the Total Force Policy?
and NATO forces invaded Afghanistan in October 2001, displacing the Taliban government	Which country was invaded by the U.S. in October 2001?
Before 1903 members of the National Guard were considered state soldiers unless federalized (i	What were National Guard members considered before 1903?
Army currently consists of 10 active divisions as well as several independent units	How many divisions are there in the U.S. Army?
Army is generally divided into two categories – individual and collective	What categories are U.S. Army training divided into?
Many units are supplemented with a variety of specialized weapons, including the M249 SAW , to provide suppressive fire at the fire-team level	What does the SAW in M249 SAW stand for?
The Pentagon bought 25,000 MRAP vehicles since 2007 in 25 variants through rapid acquisition with no long-term plans for the platforms	How many MRAP vehicles has the Pentagon bought since 2007?
Army black beret is no longer worn with the new ACU for garrison duty	What piece of the uniform has been replaced by the patrol cap?
As a uniformed military service, the Army is part of the Department of the Army, which is one of the three military departments of the Department of Defense	How many military departments does the Department of Defense have?
The army's major campaign against the Indians was fought in Florida against Seminoles	What Indian tribe was the Army's major campaign against?
The Korean War began in 1950, when the Soviets walked out of a U	What year did the Korean War start?
By November 1989 Pentagon briefers were laying out plans to reduce army end strength by 23%, from 750,000 to 580,000	In 1989, what did the Pentagon plan to reduce the army end strength to?
Army commenced in 1775	What year was the U.S. army organized?
The United States Army is made up of three components: the active component, the Regular Army; and two reserve components, the Army National Guard and the Army Reserve	What is the active component of the U.S. Army?
"Following their basic and advanced training at the individual-level, soldiers may choose to continue their training and apply for an ""additional skill identifier"" "	What does ASI stand for?
The army has relied heavily on tents to provide the various facilities needed while on deployment	What does the army use for facilities while they are deployed?
The American Civil War was the costliest war for the U	Which war had the most U.S. casualties associated with it?
Starting in 1910, the army began acquiring fixed-wing aircraft	In what year did the army start using fixed-wing aircraft?
In 1967 Secretary of Defense Robert McNamara decided that 15 combat divisions in the Army National Guard were unnecessary and cut the number to 8 divisions , but increased the number of brigades from 7 to 18 	Who was the Secretary of Defense in 1967?
8	How many divisions did the Secretary of Defense cut the original 15 down to?
8	How many division did the Secretary of Defense cut the original 10 down to?
On September 11, 2001, 53 Army civilians and 22 soldiers were among the 125 victims killed in the Pentagon in a terrorist attack when American Airlines Flight 77 commandeered by five Al-Qaeda hijackers slammed into the western side of the building, as part of the September 11 attacks	How many victims were killed in the attack on the Pentagon?
The army is also changing its base unit from divisions to brigades	What is the army replacing divisions with?
Army is the 9 mm M9 pistol; the M11 pistol is also used	What is the primary sidearm used by the U.S. Army?
The army's most common vehicle is the High Mobility Multipurpose Wheeled Vehicle , commonly called the Humvee, which is capable of serving as a cargo/troop carrier, weapons platform, and ambulance, among many other roles	What does HMMWV stand for?
The German states proclaimed their union as the German Empire under the Prussian king, Wilhelm I, uniting Germany as a nation-state	Under what Prussian king did the German empire unite as a nation-state?
The Ems telegram had exactly the effect on French public opinion that Bismarck had intended	What telegram had the intended effect on French public opinion?
The army was still equipped with the Dreyse needle gun of Battle of Königgrätz fame, which was by this time showing the age of its 25-year-old design	In which battle did the Dreyse needle gun gain its fame?
The first action of the Franco-Prussian War took place on 4 August 1870	What was the date of the first action of the Franco-Prussian War?
The French were unaware of German numerical superiority at the beginning of the battle as the German 2nd Army did not attack all at once	What factor were the French unaware of at the start of the battle?
Privat , was the largest battle during the Franco-Prussian War	On which date was the Battle of Gravelotte?
With the defeat of Marshal Bazaine's Army of the Rhine at Gravelotte, the French were forced to retire to Metz, where they were besieged by over 150,000 Prussian troops of the First and Second Armies	What factor forced the French to retreat to Metz?
When the war had begun, European public opinion heavily favored the Germans; many Italians attempted to sign up as volunteers at the Prussian embassy in Florence and a Prussian diplomat visited Giuseppe Garibaldi in Caprera	At the start of the war, which country did European public opinion champion?
On 10 October, hostilities began between German and French republican forces near Orléans	On which date did hostilities between the German and French troops begin near Orleans?
Although public opinion in Paris was strongly against any form of surrender or concession to the Prussians, the Government realised that it could not hold the city for much longer, and that Gambetta's provincial armies would probably never break through to relieve Paris	What was public opinion in Paris strongly opposed to?
The quick German victory over the French stunned neutral observers, many of whom had expected a French victory and most of whom had expected a long war	What stunned neutral observers about the end of the war?
The effect of these differences was accentuated by the pre-war preparations	The effect of German victory and ensuing influence stems back to what factor?
At the Battle of Mars-la-Tours, the Prussian 12th Cavalry Brigade, commanded by General Adalbert von Bredow, conducted a charge against a French artillery battery	Who commanded the Prussian 12 Cavalry Brigade?
In the Prussian province of Posen, with a large Polish population, there was strong support for the French and angry demonstrations at news of Prussian-German victories—a clear manifestation of Polish nationalist feeling	In which Prussian province did a large Polish population reside?
The causes of the Franco-Prussian War are deeply rooted in the events surrounding the unification of Germany	What are the causes of the Franco-Prussian War deeply rooted in?
The French Army consisted in peacetime of approximately 400,000 soldiers, some of them regulars, others conscripts who until 1869 served the comparatively long period of seven years with the colours	In peacetime, what the approximate number of French soldiers?
The Prussian army was controlled by the General Staff, under Field Marshal Helmuth von Moltke	What entity controlled the Prussian army?
General Frossard's II Corps and Marshal Bazaine's III Corps crossed the German border on 2 August, and began to force the Prussian 40th Regiment of the 16th Infantry Division from the town of Saarbrücken with a series of direct attacks	On which date did Frossard's and Bazaines's troops cross the German border?
According to some historians, Bismarck adroitly created a diplomatic crisis over the succession to the Spanish throne, then edited a dispatch about a meeting between King William of Prussia and the French ambassador, to make it appear that the French had been insulted	What diplomatic crisis was Bismarck credited with skillfully creating? 
The people of the town of Wissembourg finally surrendered to the Germans	Which town's people surrendered to the Germans?
The Franco-Prussian War or Franco-German War (German: Deutsch-Französischer Krieg, lit	What is the Franco-Prussian War also known as?
The immediate cause of the war resided in the candidacy of a Leopold of Hohenzollern-Sigmaringen, a Prussian prince, to the throne of Spain	In whose cadidacy did the immediate cause of war reside?
The Battle of Wörth began when the two armies clashed again on 6 August near Wörth in the town of Fröschwiller, about 10 miles from Wissembourg	What battle began when two armies collided in the town of Froschwiller?
In Prussia, some officials considered a war against France both inevitable and necessary to arouse German nationalism in those states that would allow the unification of a great German empire	In which country was a war against France condsidered desirable?
On 18 August, the battle began when at 08:00 Moltke ordered the First and Second Armies to advance against the French positions	On what date did the battle begin?
French infantry were equipped with the breech-loading Chassepot rifle, one of the most modern mass-produced firearms in the world at the time	What modern, mass-produced weapon were the French infantry provided?
On 1 September 1870, the battle opened with the Army of Châlons, with 202 infantry battalions, 80 cavalry squadrons and 564 guns, attacking the surrounding Prussian Third and Meuse Armies totaling 222 infantry battalions, 186 cavalry squadrons and 774 guns	On which date did the battle begin with the Army of Chalons attacking various Prussian divisions?
A pre-war plan laid out by the late Marshal Niel called for a strong French offensive from Thionville towards Trier and into the Prussian Rhineland	Pre-war, who planned for a strong French offensive?
On the French side, planning after the disaster at Wissembourg had become essential	Which disaster made French planning supremely essential?
Following the Army of the Loire's defeats, Gambetta turned to General Faidherbe's Army of the North	What army's defeats turned Gambetta to the Army of the North?
Despite odds of four to one, the III Corps launched a risky attack	What odds were at stake for the attack launched by the III Corps?
With the defeat of the First Army, Prince Frederick Charles ordered a massed artillery attack against Canrobert's position at St	Which prince ordered an artillery attack against Canrobert?
When the war began, the French government ordered a blockade of the North German coasts, which the small North German navy with only five ironclads could do little to oppose	A blockade of what coastline was ordered by the French government at the start of the war?
The Battle of Spicheren, on 5 August, was the second of three critical French defeats	Which battle was the second of three key French losses?
The Prussian General Staff developed by Moltke proved to be extremely effective, in contrast to the traditional French school	The General Staff developed by Moltke proved to be what?
The Germans expected to negotiate an end to the war but immediately ordered an advance on Paris; by 15 September Moltke issued the orders for an investment of Paris and on 20 September the encirclement was complete	What did the Germans expect to negotiate?
By 16:50, with the Prussian southern attacks in danger of breaking up, the Prussian 3rd Guards Infantry Brigade of the Second Army opened an attack against the French positions at St	By late afternoon, what were the Prussian southern attacks at risk of?
The Prussian Army, under the terms of the armistice, held a brief victory parade in Paris on 17 February; the city was silent and draped with black and the Germans quickly withdrew	What did the Prussian Army hold in Paris on 17 February?
When the news arrived at Paris of the surrender at Sedan of Napoleon III and 80,000 men, the Second Empire was overthrown by a popular uprising in Paris, which forced the proclamation of a Provisional Government and a Third Republic by general Trochu, Favre and Gambetta at Paris on 4 September, the new government calling itself the Government of National Defence	Whose surrender hit Paris as big news?
A series of swift Prussian and German victories in eastern France, culminating in the Siege of Metz and the Battle of Sedan, saw the army of the Second Empire decisively defeated 	A series of Prussian and German victories took place in what part of France?
Some historians argue that Napoleon III also sought war, particularly for the diplomatic defeat in 1866 in leveraging any benefits from the Austro-Prussian War, and he believed he would win a conflict with Prussia	Some historians counter that Napolean III sought what?
To relieve pressure from the expected German attack into Alsace-Lorraine, Napoleon III and the French high command planned a seaborne invasion of northern Germany as soon as war began	What did Napoleon III plan to relieve pressure from an expected German attack?
The Prussian Army was composed not of regulars but conscripts	What was the Prussian Army composed of, instead of regulars?
In addition, the Prussian military education system was superior to the French model; Prussian staff officers were trained to exhibit initiative and independent thinking	What Prussian system was superior to the French example?
The French breech-loading rifle, the Chassepot, had a far longer range than the German needle gun; 1,500 yards compared to 600 yd 	What aspect of the Chassepot was superior to the German needle gun?
The French Marines and naval infantry intended for the invasion of northern Germany were dispatched to reinforce the French Army of Châlons and fell into captivity at Sedan along with Napoleon III	The French Marines and naval infantry were dispatched to reinforce what?
Marshal MacMahon, now closest to Wissembourg, spread his four divisions over 20 miles to react to any Prussian invasion	Which marshal was closest to Wissembourg?
During the war, the Paris National Guard, particularly in the working-class neighbourhoods of Paris, had become highly politicised and units elected officers; many refused to wear uniforms or obey commands from the national government	What became highly politicised during the war?
While the French army under General MacMahon engaged the German 3rd Army at the Battle of Wörth, the German 1st Army under Steinmetz finished their advance west from Saarbrücken	Who commanded the French army at the battle of Worth?
The casualties were horrible, especially for the attacking Prussian forces	Who were the casualties especially terrible for?
"While the republican government was amenable to war reparations or ceding colonial territories in Africa or in South East Asia to Prussia, Favre on behalf of the Government of National Defense, declared on 6 September that France would not ""yield an inch of its territory nor a stone of its fortresses"	What was the republican government amenable to?
Albrecht von Roon, the Prussian Minister of War from 1859 to 1873, put into effect a series of reforms of the Prussian military system in the 1860s	Who was the Prussian Minister of War?
The French were equipped with bronze, rifled muzzle-loading artillery, while the Prussians used new steel breech-loading guns, which had a far longer range and a faster rate of fire	What type of artillery were the French equipped with?
On 28 January 1871 the Government of National Defence based in Paris negotiated an armistice with the Prussians	On what date did the Government of National Defence negotiate an armistice?
 500 people, including the Archbishop of Paris, and burned down many government buildings, including the Tuileries Palace and the Hotel de Ville	How many were killed by the Communards?
At the outset of the Franco-Prussian War, 462,000 German soldiers concentrated on the French frontier while only 270,000 French soldiers could be moved to face them, the French army having lost 100,000 stragglers before a shot was fired through poor planning and administration	At the start of the war, how many German troops were focused on the French frontier?
The events of the Franco-Prussian War had great influence on military thinking over the next forty years	The events of the Franco-Prussian War had great influence on what?
The creation of a unified German Empire ended the balance of power that had been created with the Congress of Vienna after the end of the Napoleonic Wars	A unified German Empire ended the balance of power in which congress?
Puberty occurs through a long process and begins with a surge in hormone production, which in turn causes a number of physical changes	A surge in hormone production triggers a number of physical changes during what stage of life?
Within all of these perspectives, adolescence is viewed as a transitional period between childhood and adulthood, whose cultural purpose is the preparation of children for adult roles	What is the cultural purpose of adolescence?
Pubertal development also affects circulatory and respiratory systems as an adolescents' heart and lungs increase in both size and capacity	How do a person's heart and lungs change during puberty?
The human brain is not fully developed by the time a person reaches puberty	Is a person's brain fully developed by the time they reach puberty?
Serotonin is a neuromodulator involved in regulation of mood and behavior	Which neuromodulator is involved in regulation of mood and behavior?
Adolescents' thinking is less bound to concrete events than that of children: they can contemplate possibilities outside the realm of what currently exists	Are adolescents or children more bound to concrete events?
However, early puberty is not always positive for boys; early sexual maturation in boys can be accompanied by increased aggressiveness due to the surge of hormones that affect them	Are sexual actvity and risky behaviors more likely in boys that mature early or later?
Wisdom, or the capacity for insight and judgment that is developed through experience, increases between the ages of fourteen and twenty-five, then levels off	How is wisdom defined?
In studying adolescent development, adolescence can be defined biologically, as the physical transition marked by the onset of puberty and the termination of physical growth; cognitively, as changes in the ability to think abstractly and multi-dimensionally; or socially, as a period of preparation for adult roles	How is adolescence defined biologically?
Jean Macfarlane founded the University of California, Berkeley's Institute of Human Development, formerly called the Institute of Child Welfare, in 1927	Who founded the University of California, Berkeley's Institude of Human Development?
The major landmark of puberty for males is the first ejaculation, which occurs, on average, at age 13	What is a male's major landmark of puberty?
Exploring these possibilities may result in abrupt changes in self-presentation as the adolescent chooses or rejects qualities and behaviors, trying to guide the actual self toward the ideal self and away from the feared self 	How can the ideal self be described in terms of the adolescent?
Menarche, the beginning of menstruation, is a relatively late development which follows a long series of hormonal changes	What term is the beginning of menstruation given?
The first ejaculation of seminal fluid generally occurs about one year after the beginning of accelerated penis growth, although this is often determined culturally rather than biologically, since for many boys first ejaculation occurs as a result of masturbation	What activity often results in a boy's first ejaculation?
Young children tend to assert themselves forcefully, but are unable to demonstrate much influence over family decisions until early adolescence, when they are increasingly viewed by parents as equals	At what stage do parents see their children as equals?
Some of the most developmentally significant changes in the brain occur in the prefrontal cortex, which is involved in decision making and cognitive control, as well as other higher cognitive functions	Which part of the brain is involved in decision making and cognitive control?
Peer groups can have positive influences on an individual, such as on academic motivation and performance	What is one area in which peer groups can have positive influences on an individual?
One is the constructivist view of cognitive development	What view towards cognitive development during adolescence did Piaget take?
While adolescents may engage in casual sexual encounters , most sexual experience during this period of development takes place within romantic relationships	Casual sexual encounters are often referred to as what?
A third gain in cognitive ability involves thinking about thinking itself, a process referred to as metacognition	What is the term used to describe thinking about thinking itself?
A questionnaire called the teen timetable has been used to measure the age at which individuals believe adolescents should be able to engage in behaviors associated with autonomy	What questionaire has been used to measure the age in which adolescents should be able to engage in autonomous behaviors?
withdrawal), having multiple sexual partners, and poor communication are some aspects of sexual behavior that increase individual and/or social risk	What is an example of a poor birth control method?
Research seems to favor the hypothesis that adolescents and adults think about risk in similar ways, but hold different values and thus come to different conclusions	Does research favor or reject the hypothesis that adolescents and adults think about risk similarly but hold different values and therefore come to different conclusions?
For most, the search for identity begins in the adolescent years	When does the search for identity begin for most individuals?
Research since reveals self-examination beginning early in adolescence, but identity achievement rarely occurring before age 18	Identity achievement rarely occurs before what age?
Everyone has a self-concept, whereas Erik Erikson argued that not everyone fully achieves identity	Which theorist argued that not everyone fully achieves identity?
Self-esteem is defined as one's thoughts and feelings about one's self-concept and identity	Which term is defined as one's thoughts and feelings about one's self-concept and identity?
A study of 194 lesbian, gay, and bisexual youths under the age of 21 found that having an awareness of one's sexual orientation occurred, on average, around age 10, but the process of coming out to peers and adults occurred around age 16 and 17, respectively	At what age does awareness of one's sexual orientation occur on average?
A study conducted by Adalbjarnardottir and Blondal showed that adolescents at the age of 14 who identify their parents as authoritative figures are more likely to complete secondary education by the age of 22—as support and encouragement from an authoritative parent motivates the adolescence to complete schooling to avoid disappointing that parent	Are adolescents with authoritative parents more or less likely to complete secondary education by age 22?
Modern day teenagers are exposed to more media on a daily basis than any generation before them	Are modern day teenagers exposed to more or less media than other generations?
With the divorce rate up to about 50%, divorce is common and adds to the already great amount of change in adolescence	What is the current divorce rate?
, as well as in other cultures around the world, are Confirmation, Bar and Bat Mitzvahs, Quinceañeras, sweet sixteens, cotillions, and débutante balls	What are a few examples of social and religious transition ceremonies?
Romantic relationships tend to increase in prevalence throughout adolescence	Do romantic relationships tend to increase or decrease throughout adolescence?
"Culture has been defined as the ""symbolic and behavioral inheritance received from the past that provides a community framework for what is valued"""	How is culture defined?
Adolescents use online technology to experiment with emerging identities and to broaden their peer groups, such as increasing the amount of friends acquired on Facebook and other social media sites	How do adolescents use online technology?
One in four sexually active teenagers will contract an STI	What percentage of sexually active teenagers will contract an STI?
Furthermore, since the advent of the Convention on the Rights of the Child in 1989 , almost every country in the world (except the U	In what year was the Convention on the Rights of the Child created?
For instance, in many developing countries it is common for children to attend fewer years of formal schooling so that, when they reach adolescence, they can begin working	In developing countries, is it common for children to attend fewer or greater years of formal schooling?
For example, menarche , or semenarche are frequent sexual defining points for many cultures	What word refers to the first ejactulation of a male?
Drinking habits and the motives behind them often reflect certain aspects of an individual's personality; in fact, four dimensions of the Five-Factor Model of personality demonstrate associations with drinking motives 	Which of the Five-Factor Model dimensions does not demonstrate an association with drinking motives?
Although research has been inconclusive, some findings have indicated that electronic communication negatively affects adolescents' social development, replaces face-to-face communication, impairs their social skills, and can sometimes lead to unsafe interaction with strangers	According to research findings, does Internet use have a positive or negative effect on teen physical health?
Aside from alcohol, marijuana is the most commonly indulged drug habit during adolescent years	What is the most commonly abused substance during adolescent years in the U.S.?
Distinctions between the reasons for alcohol consumption of males and females begin to emerge around ages 14–15; overall, boys tend to view drinking in a more social light than girls, who report on average a more frequent use of alcohol as a coping mechanism	During what ages do reasons for alcohol consumption between males and females begin to diverge?
Adolescence is a transitional stage of physical and psychological human development that generally occurs during the period from puberty to legal adulthood 	"From which language does the word ""adolescence"" originate?"
Within the past ten years, the amount of social networking sites available to the public has greatly increased as well as the number of adolescents using them	In recent years, has the amount of social networking sites available to the public increased or decreased?
Consequently, girls that reach sexual maturation early are more likely than their peers to develop eating disorders 	Are girls reaching sexual maturation early more or less likely to develop eating disorers?
This process is different for females and males	Is change in bodily distribution of fat and muscle the same or different between males and females during puberty?
Changes in secondary sex characteristics include every change that is not directly related to sexual reproduction	What is a secondary sex characteristic change?
Compared to children, adolescents are more likely to question others' assertions, and less likely to accept facts as absolute truths	Are children or adolescents more likely to question assertions and less likely to accept facts?
"Stanley Hall's ""Adolescence in 1904"	What was the title of the publication that started the formal study of adolescent psychology?
As a result, adolescents experience a significant shift from the simple, concrete, and global self-descriptions typical of young children; as children, they defined themselves by physical traits whereas as adolescents, they define themselves based on their values, thoughts, and opinions	How do children tend to define themselves?
While most adolescent studies are conducted on white, middle class children, studies show that the more privileged upbringing people have, the more successfully they develop their identity	Which adolescent ethninticy is most often studied?
The relationships adolescents have with their peers, family, and members of their social sphere play a vital role in the social development of an adolescent	What has the largest affect over one's social development?
Communication with peers increases significantly during adolescence and peer relationships become more intense than in other stages and more influential to the teen, affecting both the decisions and choices being made	Does communication with peers increase or decrease during adolescence?
Sexual events were less common than romantic events and social events 	Did adolescents report more sexual or social events to researchers?
Psychologists have identified three main types of autonomy: emotional independence, behavioral autonomy, and cognitive autonomy	What are the three main types of autonomy?
American teenagers spend less time in school or working and more time on leisure activities—which include playing sports, socializing, and caring for their appearance—than do adolescents in many other countries	Do American teenagers spend more or less time in shool than adolescents in other countires?
Teenage alcohol drug use is currently at an all-time low	Is teenage alcohol drug use at al all-time high or low?
Research has generally shown striking uniformity across different cultures in the motives behind teen alcohol use	Are motives behind teen alcohol use varied or uniform across different cultures?
A broad way of defining adolescence is the transition from child-to-adulthood	The transition from child-to-adulthood can be broadly defined as what?
Adolescence is usually accompanied by an increased independence allowed by the parents or legal guardians, including less supervision as compared to preadolescence	Is adolescence usually accompanied by increased parental supervision or increased independence?
Facial hair in males normally appears in a specific order during puberty: The first facial hair to appear tends to grow at the corners of the upper lip, typically between 14 to 17 years of age	When do the first facial hairs present in pubescent males?
Males experience their growth spurt about two years later, on average, than females	Do males or females experience growth spurts first?
Over the course of adolescence, the amount of white matter in the brain increases linearly, while the amount of grey matter in the brain follows an inverted-U pattern	Does the amount of white matter in the brain increase or decrease over the course of adolescence?
Piaget describes adolescence as the stage of life in which the individual's thoughts start taking more of an abstract form and the egocentric thoughts decrease	Who describes adolescence as the stage of life in which the individual's thoughts start taking more of an abstract form?
For example, adolescents find it easier than children to comprehend the sorts of higher-order abstract logic inherent in puns, proverbs, metaphors, and analogies	Do adolescents or children understand puns, proverbs, metaphors, and analogies most effectively?
Because most injuries sustained by adolescents are related to risky behavior , a great deal of research has been done on the cognitive and emotional processes underlying adolescent risk-taking	Most injuries sustained by adolescents are related to what?
Differentiation appears fully developed by mid-adolescence	When does differentiation appear fully developed?
In 1989, Troiden proposed a four-stage model for the development of homosexual sexual identity	In what year did Troiden propose a four-stage model for the development of homosexual sexual identity?
In same-sex sibling pairs, intimacy increases during early adolescence, then remains stable	Does intimacy between same-sex siblings increase or decrease during adolescence?
"Adolescents tend to associate with ""cliques"" on a small scale and ""crowds"" on a larger scale"	"Do adolescents associate with ""cliques"" on a large or small scale?"
When surveyed, 10-45% of adolescents reported having experienced physical violence in the context of a relationship while a quarter to a third of adolescents reported having experiencing psychological aggression	What percentage of adolescents reporting having experienced physical violence in a relationship?
Some research has shown that adolescent participation in family work and routines has a positive influence on the development of an adolescent's feelings of self-worth, care, and concern for others	Does adolescent participation in family work and routines have a positive or negative influence on feelings of self-worth, care, and concern for others?
An adolescent begins to develop a unique belief system through his or her interaction with social, familial, and cultural environments	Through what means does an adolescent develop a unique belief system?
Almost all American households have at least one television, more than three-quarters of all adolescents' homes have access to the Internet, and more than 90% of American adolescents use the Internet at least occasionally	What percentage of adolescent homes have access to the internet?
A	What percentage of adolescents report using social networking sites?
Developmental Intervention Science is a fusion of the literature of both developmental and intervention sciences	What is DIS?
Peer acceptance and social norms gain a significantly greater hand in directing behavior at the onset of adolescence; as such, the alcohol and illegal drug habits of teens tend to be shaped largely by the substance use of friends and other classmates	What does the alcohol and illegal drug habits of teens tend to be shaped by?
The age of consent to sexual activity varies widely between jurisdictions, ranging from 12 to 20 years, as does the age at which people are allowed to marry	What is the range of consentual age variance between jurisdictions?
Antarctica, on average, is the coldest, driest, and windiest continent, and has the highest average elevation of all the continents	Which continent is the highest in elevation?
Geologically, West Antarctica closely resembles the Andes mountain range of South America	To what mountainous area is Antarctica geologically similar?
"Integral to the story of the origin of the name ""Antarctica"" is how it was not named Terra Australis—this name was given to Australia instead, and it was because of a mistake made by people who decided that a significant landmass would not be found farther south than Australia"	What did people once believe could not be found further south than Australia?
The research is part of the global Census of Marine Life and has disclosed some remarkable findings	Part of what study is the census of Antarctic marine life?
During the Nimrod Expedition led by Ernest Shackleton in 1907, parties led by Edgeworth David became the first to climb Mount Erebus and to reach the South Magnetic Pole	What explorer led the Nimrod Expedition into Antarctica?
The passing of the Antarctic Conservation Act in the U	When was the Antarctic Conservation Act passed by the U.S.?
"Small-scale ""expedition tourism"" has existed since 1957 and is currently subject to Antarctic Treaty and Environmental Protocol provisions, but in effect self-regulated by the International Association of Antarctica Tour Operators "	Since what year has tourism been ongoing to Antarctica?
The main mineral resource known on the continent is coal	What is the main mineral found on Antarctica?
On 6 September 2007, Belgian-based International Polar Foundation unveiled the Princess Elisabeth station, the world's first zero-emissions polar science station in Antarctica to research climate change	What type of research was Princess Elizabeth station built to study?
Melting of floating ice shelves does not in itself contribute much to sea-level rise 	What type of ice originates on land and floats out to sea?
The climate of Antarctica does not allow extensive vegetation to form	What can not grow extensively in Antarctica?
New claims on Antarctica have been suspended since 1959 although Norway in 2015 formally defined Queen Maud Land as including the unclaimed area between it and the South Pole	Since what year have claims been suspended in Antarctica?
European maps continued to show this hypothesized land until Captain James Cook's ships, HMS Resolution and Adventure, crossed the Antarctic Circle on 17 January 1773, in December 1773 and again in January 1774	When did Cook's ships cross the Antarctic circle?
Since the 1970s, an important focus of study has been the ozone layer in the atmosphere above Antarctica	What has been an important atmospheric study since the 1970s?
During the Cambrian period, Gondwana had a mild climate	What type of climate did Gondwana have during the Cambrian period?
Antarctica is Earth's southernmost continent, containing the geographic South Pole	What is the Earth's most southern continent?
Antarctica is the coldest of Earth's continents	Where was the coldest temperature recorded on Earth?
Aristotle wrote in his book Meteorology about an Antarctic region in c	Who wrote a book describing a cold region in 350 B.C.?
Some scientific studies suggest that ozone depletion may have a dominant role in governing climatic change in Antarctica 	In what do some scientists believe ozone depletion may have a role ?
Several governments maintain permanent manned research stations on the continent	Who has research stations in Antarctica?
Positioned asymmetrically around the South Pole and largely south of the Antarctic Circle, Antarctica is the southernmost continent and is surrounded by the Southern Ocean; alternatively, it may be considered to be surrounded by the southern Pacific, Atlantic, and Indian Oceans, or by the southern waters of the World Ocean	What is the southern most continent?
Some species of marine animals exist and rely, directly or indirectly, on the phytoplankton	What sea plankton doe many sea creatures rely on to live?
Vinson Massif, the highest peak in Antarctica at 4,892 m , is located in the Ellsworth Mountains	What is the highest peak in Antarctica?
In 1983, the Antarctic Treaty Parties began negotiations on a convention to regulate mining in Antarctica	When did negotiations start to regulate mining in Antarctica?
As a result of continued warming, the polar ice caps melted and much of Gondwana became a desert	What did most of Gondwana become when the polar ice melted?
Meteorites from Antarctica are an important area of study of material formed early in the solar system; most are thought to come from asteroids, but some may have originated on larger planets	What astronomical study is important research for Antarctica?
Due to its location at the South Pole, Antarctica receives relatively little solar radiation	What location means that Antarctica get little solar radiation?
The first semi-permanent inhabitants of regions near Antarctica were British and American sealers who used to spend a year or more on South Georgia, from 1786 onward	Where did the first semi-permanent residents of the Antarctic area live?
Some of Antarctica has been warming up; particularly strong warming has been noted on the Antarctic Peninsula	Where in Antarctica has warming been noticed?
The Antarctic fur seal was very heavily hunted in the 18th and 19th centuries for its pelt by sealers from the United States and the United Kingdom	What animal was greatly hunted during the 18th and 19th centuries?
The Protocol on Environmental Protection to the Antarctic Treaty came into force in 1998, and is the main instrument concerned with conservation and management of biodiversity in Antarctica	When did the Environmental Protocol become effective?
The 1991 Protocol on Environmental Protection to the Antarctic Treaty also restricts a struggle for resources	What does the Protocol on Environmental Protection seek to regulate?
This large collection of meteorites allows a better understanding of the abundance of meteorite types in the solar system and how meteorites relate to asteroids and comets	How do the meteorites found in Antarctica add to knowledge about the solar system?
In 2002 the Antarctic Peninsula's Larsen-B ice shelf collapsed	When did the Larsen-B ice shelf collapse?
Antarctica has no indigenous population and there is no evidence that it was seen by humans until the 19th century	When was the first time humans visited Antarctica?
About 98% of Antarctica is covered by the Antarctic ice sheet, a sheet of ice averaging at least 1	How much of Antarctica is covered by ice?
There is some evidence, in the form of ice cores drilled to about 400 m above the water line, that Lake Vostok's waters may contain microbial life	What lake is thought to contain microbial life?
Africa separated from Antarctica in the Jurassic, around 160 Ma, followed by the Indian subcontinent in the early Cretaceous 	In what period did Africa beak off from Antarctica?
Antarctica is colder than the Arctic for three reasons	Which of the the poles is colder?
Emilio Marcos Palma was the first person born south of the 60th parallel south , as well as the first one born on the Antarctic mainland, in 1978 at Base Esperanza, on the tip of the Antarctic Peninsula; his parents were sent there along with seven other families by the Argentine government to determine if the continent was suitable for family life	Who was the first person born south of the 60th parallel?
About 1150 species of fungi have been recorded from Antarctica, of which about 750 are non-lichen-forming and 400 are lichen-forming	How many species of fungi have been found on Antarctica?
On 18 December 2012, the British Foreign and Commonwealth Office named a previously unnamed area Queen Elizabeth Land in tribute to Queen Elizabeth II's Diamond Jubilee	What did the British claim in 2012?
There has been some concern over the potential adverse environmental and ecosystem effects caused by the influx of visitors	The entry of whom has caused some worry about the welfare of Antarctica?
Geologists tend to study plate tectonics, meteorites from outer space, and resources from the breakup of the supercontinent Gondwana	What group of scientists study tectonics?
At Buya in Eritrea, one of the oldest hominids representing a possible link between Homo erectus and an archaic Homo sapiens was found by Italian scientists	Where in Eritrea did Italian scientists find one of the oldest hominids?
The Scottish traveler James Bruce reported in 1770 that Medri Bahri was a distinct political entity from Abyssinia, noting that the two territories were frequently in conflict	Who was James Bruce?
The creation of modern-day Eritrea is a result of the incorporation of independent, distinct kingdoms and sultanates eventually resulting in the formation of Italian Eritrea	What is the result of the incorporation of independent kingdoms and sultanates?
Excavations in and near Agordat in central Eritrea yielded the remains of an ancient pre-Aksumite civilization known as the Gash Group	What is the Gash Group?
The Aksumites erected a number of large stelae, which served a religious purpose in pre-Christian times	What purpose did stelae serve?
The nation holds a seat on the United Nations' Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions 	What is the abbreviation for the United Nations' Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions?
Aksum was at the time ruled by Zoskales, who also governed the port of Adulis	Who ruled Aksum and also governed the port of Adulis?
In 1888, the Italian administration launched its first development projects in the new colony	When was the Eritrean Railway completed in Saati?
Following the adoption of UN Resolution 390A in December 1950, Eritrea was federated with Ethiopia under the prompting of the United States	Who prompted Eritrea to be federated with Ethiopia in 1950?
Additionally, the Italian Eritrea administration opened a number of new factories, which produced buttons, cooking oil, pasta, construction materials, packing meat, tobacco, hide and other household commodities	What did the Eritrea administration open to produce products such as buttons and construction materials?
Lions are said to inhabit the mountains of the Gash-Barka Region	What big cat is said to inhabit the mountains of the Gash-Barka Region?
Eritrea can be split into three ecoregions	How many ecoregions make up Eritrea?
It is estimated that there are around 100 elephants left in Eritrea, the most northerly of East Africa's elephants	How many elephants are believed to be left in Eritrea?
According to Human Rights Watch, the government's human rights record is considered among the worst in the world	According to Human Rights Watch, how do the human rights in Eritrea compare to the rest of the world?
In an attempt at reform, Eritrean government officials and NGO representatives have participated in numerous public meetings and dialogues	Why have Eritrean government officials participated in numerous meetings with NGO representatives?
In its 2014 Press Freedom Index, Reporters Without Borders ranked the media environment in Eritrea at the very bottom of a list of 178 countries, just below totalitarian North Korea	In the 2014 Press Freedom Index, what organization ranked the media environment in Eritrea as the worse of 178 countries?
Even during the war, Eritrea developed its transportation infrastructure by asphalting new roads, improving its ports, and repairing war-damaged roads and bridges as a part of the Warsay Yika'alo Program	Under which program did Eritrea develp and repair its transportation infrastructure during the war?
"The nation has no official language, as the Constitution establishes the ""equality of all Eritrean languages"""	What is the official language of Eritrea?
Eritrea has achieved significant improvements in health care and is one of the few countries to be on target to meet its Millennium Development Goal targets in health, in particular child health	Which part of Eritrea's health care goals have they been most successful in?
Additionally, owing to its colonial history, cuisine in Eritrea features more Italian influences than are present in Ethiopian cooking, including more pasta and greater use of curry powders and cumin	Where does the Italian influences on Eritrean cuisine come from?
The culture of Eritrea has been largely shaped by the country's location on the Red Sea coast	What geographical location in Eritrea has largely shaped the culture of Eritrea?
With its capital at Asmara, it is bordered by Sudan in the west, Ethiopia in the south, and Djibouti in the southeast	What country borders Eritrea in the west?
Amongst the Tigrinya, the best known traditional musical genre is the guaila	What is the best know musical genre amongst the Tigrinya?
During the Middle Ages, the Eritrea region was known as Medri Bahri 	What was the Eritrean region known as during the Middle Ages?
In 2010, a genetic study was conducted on the mummified remains of baboons that were brought back as gifts from Punt by the ancient Egyptians	In 2010, what was conducted on mummified remains of baboons?
After the decline of Aksum, the Eritrean highlands were under the domain of Bahr Negash ruled by the Bahr Negus	What domain were the Eritrean highlands under after the decline of Aksum?
In 1922, Benito Mussolini's rise to power in Italy brought profound changes to the colonial government in Italian Eritrea	Whose rise to power in 1922 brought profounc change to the government in Italian Eritrea?
When Emperor Haile Selassie unilaterally dissolved the Eritrean parliament and annexed the country in 1962, the Eritrean Liberation Front waged an armed struggle for independence	Who dissolved the Eritrean parliament in 1962?
Disagreements following the war have resulted in stalemate punctuated by periods of elevated tension and renewed threats of war	What did disagreements following the Eritrean War result in?
HIV prevalence among the 15–49 group exceeds 2%	How prevalent is HIV among the 15-49 age group in Eritrea?
5	How many physicians are there per 1000 people as of 2016?
In the larger cities, most people dress in Western casual dress such as jeans and shirts	How do most people dress in the larger cities of Eritrea?
Football and cycling are the most popular sports in Eritrea	What are the most popular sports in Eritrea?
During the last interglacial period, the Red Sea coast of Eritrea was occupied by early anatomically modern humans	Who occupied the Red Sea coast during the last interglacial period?
At the end of the 16th century, the Aussa Sultanate was established in the Denkel lowlands of Eritrea	When was the Aussa Sultanate established?
In the vacuum that followed the 1889 death of Emperor Yohannes II, Gen	When did Emperor Yohannes II die?
In the 1950s, the Ethiopian feudal administration under Emperor Haile Selassie sought to annex Eritrea and Italian Somaliland	What did Emperor Haile Selassie seek to annex in the 1950's?
The Eritrean highway system is named according to the road classification	How is the Eritrean highway system named?
According to recent estimates, 50% of the population adheres to Christianity, Islam 48%, while 2% of the population follows other religions including traditional African religion and animism	What percentage of Eritrea is estimated to adhere to Christianity?
Education in Eritrea is officially compulsory between seven and 13 years of age	What ages are officially compulsary for education in Eritrea?
A typical traditional Eritrean dish consists of injera accompanied by a spicy stew, which frequently includes beef, kid, lamb or fish	What meat does a traditional Eritrean stew consist of?
Depleted uranium is also used as a shielding material in some containers used to store and transport radioactive materials	What kind of uranium is sometimes used to shield radioactive materials in containers?
The discovery and isolation of radium in uranium ore by Marie Curie sparked the development of uranium mining to extract the radium, which was used to make glow-in-the-dark paints for clock and aircraft dials	What is another term for uranium ore?
The X-10 Graphite Reactor at Oak Ridge National Laboratory in Oak Ridge, Tennessee, formerly known as the Clinton Pile and X-10 Pile, was the world's second artificial nuclear reactor and was the first reactor designed and built for continuous operation	What was the world's first artificial nuclear reactor?
Uranium is the 51st element in order of abundance in the Earth's crust	Where does uranium rank among elements in terms of its abundance in the Earth's crust?
Uranium-235 was the first isotope that was found to be fissile	What isotope of uranium was the first to be found fissile?
In nature, uranium forms highly soluble carbonate complexes at alkaline pH	What type of complexes does uranium form in nature?
5 million tonnes of uranium exists in ore reserves that are economically viable at US$59 per lb of uranium, while 35 million tonnes are classed as mineral resources 	How many millions of tonnes are uranium are regarded as mineral resources?
A team led by Enrico Fermi in 1934 observed that bombarding uranium with neutrons produces the emission of beta rays 	When was it observed that bombarding uranium with neutrons results in beta ray emission?
The interactions of carbonate anions with uranium cause the Pourbaix diagram to change greatly when the medium is changed from water to a carbonate containing solution	In what medium does the Pourbaix diagram change when carbonate anions interact with uranium?
Uranium is more plentiful than antimony, tin, cadmium, mercury, or silver, and it is about as abundant as arsenic or molybdenum	Along with arsenic, what metal is roughly as abundant as uranium?
71%), and uranium-234 (0	What is the least prevalent major isotope of natural uranium?
There have been experiments to extract uranium from sea water, but the yield has been low due to the carbonate present in the water	The presence of what substance in sea water has resulted in low yields when attempting to extract uranium?
Uranium-235 has the distinction of being the only naturally occurring fissile isotope	What is the sole fissile isotope that occurs in nature?
The Occupational Safety and Health Administration has set the permissible exposure limit for uranium exposure in the workplace as 0	What is OSHA?
The most common forms of uranium oxide are triuranium octoxide (U 3O 8) and UO 2	Along with UO2, what is the commonest form of uranium oxide?
The use of uranium in its natural oxide form dates back to at least the year 79 CE, when it was used to add a yellow color to ceramic glazes	What was the earliest year in recorded history that uranium oxide was used?
On 2 December 1942, as part of the Manhattan Project, another team led by Enrico Fermi was able to initiate the first artificial self-sustained nuclear chain reaction, Chicago Pile-1	What was the first self-sustained nuclear chain reaction created by human beings called?
Uranium is used as a colorant in uranium glass producing orange-red to lemon yellow hues	Along with lemon yellow, what color is produced in uranium glass?
In nature, uranium is found as uranium-238 (99	What is the most prevalent natural isotope of uranium?
The major application of uranium in the military sector is in high-density penetrators	What is uranium used for most often in the military?
The discovery of the element is credited to the German chemist Martin Heinrich Klaproth	Who discovered uranium?
Uranium ore is mined in several ways: by open pit, underground, in-situ leaching, and borehole mining 	Along with underground, open pit and in-situ leaching, what sort of mining is used to mine uranium?
Two major types of atomic bombs were developed by the United States during World War II: a uranium-based device whose fissile material was highly enriched uranium, and a plutonium-based device whose plutonium was derived from uranium-238	What was the uranium-based bomb made by the US in World War II called?
In 2005, seventeen countries produced concentrated uranium oxides, with Canada (27	As of 2005, what country was the largest producer of uranium oxides?
During the Cold War between the Soviet Union and the United States, huge stockpiles of uranium were amassed and tens of thousands of nuclear weapons were created using enriched uranium and plutonium made from uranium	Who was the Soviet Union's opponent in the Cold War?
The most common ionic forms are U3+ , U4+ , UO+ 2 , and UO2+ 2 , for U, U, U, and U, respectively	What is the color of U4+?
Some organisms, such as the lichen Trapelia involuta or microorganisms such as the bacterium Citrobacter, can absorb concentrations of uranium that are up to 300 times the level of their environment	What microorganism can notably absorb a very high concentrate of uranium?
Uranium metal heated to 250 to 300 °C reacts with hydrogen to form uranium hydride	At what temperature range in degrees Fahrenheit will uranium metal form uranium hydride?
Carbides of uranium include uranium monocarbide , uranium dicarbide (UC 2), and diuranium tricarbide (U 2C 3)	Along with uranium monocarbide and uranium dicarbide, what is a notable carbide of uranium?
To be considered 'enriched', the uranium-235 fraction should be between 3% and 5%	Between what percent fraction range of uranium-235 is uranium regarded as enriched?
Normal functioning of the kidney, brain, liver, heart, and other systems can be affected by uranium exposure, because, besides being weakly radioactive, uranium is a toxic metal	Along with the heart, brain and liver, what system is notably affected by exposure to uranium?
The gas centrifuge process, where gaseous uranium hexafluoride (UF 6) is separated by the difference in molecular weight between 235UF6 and 238UF6 using high-speed centrifuges, is the cheapest and leading enrichment process	What is the name of the most widely used enrichment process?
Uranium is a chemical element with symbol U and atomic number 92	What is uranium's symbol on the Periodic Table of Elements?
U	What isn't uranium's symbol on the Periodic Table of Elements?
Uranium metal reacts with almost all non-metal elements and their compounds, with reactivity increasing with temperature	What non-metal elements does uranium notably not react to?
During the later stages of World War II, the entire Cold War, and to a lesser extent afterwards, uranium-235 has been used as the fissile explosive material to produce nuclear weapons	During what war was uranium-235 first used to create nuclear weapons?
Uranium was also used in photographic chemicals , in lamp filaments for stage lighting bulbs, to improve the appearance of dentures, and in the leather and wood industries for stains and dyes	What product of uranium was used as toner?
In 1972, the French physicist Francis Perrin discovered fifteen ancient and no longer active natural nuclear fission reactors in three separate ore deposits at the Oklo mine in Gabon, West Africa, collectively known as the Oklo Fossil Reactors	Of what nationality was Perrin?
Uranium's average concentration in the Earth's crust is 2 to 4 parts per million, or about 40 times as abundant as silver	How many times more abundant than silver is uranium in the Earth's crust?
Uranium-238 is the most stable isotope of uranium, with a half-life of about 4	What isotope of uranium has the most stability?
Most ingested uranium is excreted during digestion	What happens to a majority of ingested uranium?
Calcined uranium yellowcake, as produced in many large mills, contains a distribution of uranium oxidation species in various forms ranging from most oxidized to least oxidized	What contains a distribution of uranium deoxidation species in various forms ranging from most oxidized to least oxidized?
Appointments to the Order of the British Empire were at first made on the nomination of the self-governing Dominions of the Empire, the Viceroy of India, and the colonial governors, as well as on nominations from within the United Kingdom	How were the appointments to the Order of the British Empire made?
Any individual made a member of the Order for gallantry could wear an emblem of two crossed silver oak leaves on the same riband, ribbon or bow as the badge	Who could wear a emblem of two crossed silver oak leaves?
Honorary knighthoods are appointed to citizens of nations where Queen Elizabeth II is not Head of State, and may permit use of post-nominal letters but not the title of Sir or Dame	Who are appointed to citizens of nations?
The Order has six officials: the Prelate; the Dean; the Secretary; the Registrar; the King of Arms; and the Usher	Who are the six officials of The Order?
Appointments to the Order of the British Empire were discontinued in those Commonwealth realms that established a national system of honours and awards such as the Order of Australia, the Order of Canada, and the New Zealand Order of Merit	Who was discontinued in the Commonwealth realms?
The members of The Beatles were made MBEs in 1965	Who were MBE'S?
"The Most Excellent Order of the British Empire is the ""order of chivalry of British constitutional monarchy"", rewarding contributions to the arts and sciences, work with charitable and welfare organisations and public service outside the Civil Service"	Who was the most excellent Order of the British Empire?
"At the foundation of the Order, the ""Medal of the Order of the British Empire"" was instituted, to serve as a lower award granting recipients affiliation but not membership"	What was instituted to serve as a lower award granting recipients affiliation?
From 1940, the Sovereign could appoint a person as a Commander, Officer or Member of the Order of the British Empire for gallantry for acts of bravery below the level required for the George Medal	From what year could the Sovereign appoint a person as Commander, Officer or Member of the Order of the British Empire?
Knights Grand Cross and Knights Commander prefix Sir, and Dames Grand Cross and Dames Commander prefix Dame, to their forenames	Who would prefix Sir, and Dames Grand Cross?
India, while remaining an active member of the Commonwealth, chose as a republic to institute its own set of honours awarded by the President of India who holds a republican position some consider similar to that of the monarch in Britain	Who has set honours awarded by the President of India?
The Order is limited to 300 Knights and Dames Grand Cross, 845 Knights and Dames Commander, and 8,960 Commanders	How many Knights are in The Order?
Members of all classes of the Order are assigned positions in the order of precedence	What are the Members of classes of the Order assigned to?
Circadian rhythms allow organisms to anticipate and prepare for precise and regular environmental changes	For what do Circadian rhythms let an organism prepare?
Norwegian researchers at the University of Tromsø have shown that some Arctic animals show circadian rhythms only in the parts of the year that have daily sunrises and sunsets	What type of animals have been shown to have circadian rhythms only at certain times?
The central oscillator generates a self-sustaining rhythm and is driven by two interacting feedback loops that are active at different times of day	What produces a self-sustaining rhythm?
"A defect in the human homologue of the Drosophila ""period"" gene was identified as a cause of the sleep disorder FASPS , underscoring the conserved nature of the molecular circadian clock through evolution"	What is the Drosophila gene the cause of?
Due to the work nature of airline pilots, who often cross several timezones and regions of sunlight and darkness in one day, and spend many hours awake both day and night, they are often unable to maintain sleep patterns that correspond to the natural human circadian rhythm; this situation can easily lead to fatigue	Whose work habits and environment prevents them from maintaining a regular sleep pattern?
, when Androsthenes, a ship captain serving under Alexander the Great, described diurnal leaf movements of the tamarind tree	What ship captain described daily leaf movements?
Plant circadian rhythms tell the plant what season it is and when to flower for the best chance of attracting pollinators	What is the plant expression of circadian rhythm?
The simplest known circadian clock is that of the prokaryotic cyanobacteria	What has the simplest known circadian clock?
The rhythm is linked to the light–dark cycle	To what is the circadian rhythm tied?
Melatonin is absent from the system or undetectably low during daytime	What chemical is absent or low during daylight?
For temperature studies, subjects must remain awake but calm and semi-reclined in near darkness while their rectal temperatures are taken continuously	What physical factor must be continuously monitored during temperature studies> 
In 1896, Patrick and Gilbert observed that during a prolonged period of sleep deprivation, sleepiness increases and decreases with a period of approximately 24 hours	Who noticed that sleepiness increases and decreases in a 24 hour period?
It is now known that the molecular circadian clock can function within a single cell; i	Inside of what can the molecular circadian clock operate?
Light is the signal by which plants synchronize their internal clocks to their environment and is sensed by a wide variety of photoreceptors	What signals plants to synchronize their internal clocks?
Studies by Nathaniel Kleitman in 1938 and by Derk-Jan Dijk and Charles Czeisler in the 1990s put human subjects on enforced 28-hour sleep–wake cycles, in constant dim light and with other time cues suppressed, for over a month	What time cycle did studies in 1938 and 1990s use on humans?
Shift-work or chronic jet-lag have profound consequences on circadian and metabolic events in the body	What effect does jet-lag and shift-work have on the human body?
Studies conducted on both animals and humans show major bidirectional relationships between the circadian system and abusive drugs	What do studies show has a bidirectional relationship with the circadian system?
Previous hypotheses emphasized that photosensitive proteins and circadian rhythms may have originated together in the earliest cells, with the purpose of protecting replicating DNA from high levels of damaging ultraviolet radiation during the daytime	What is theorized to have evolved with circadian rhythms?
Mutations or deletions of clock gene in mice have demonstrated the importance of body clocks to ensure the proper timing of cellular/metabolic events; clock-mutant mice are hyperphagic and obese, and have altered glucose metabolism	What is the body clock gene in animals necessary to ensure?
"The primary circadian ""clock"" in mammals is located in the suprachiasmatic nucleus , a pair of distinct groups of cells located in the hypothalamus"	Where is the primary circadian gene located in humans?
Early research into circadian rhythms suggested that most people preferred a day closer to 25 hours when isolated from external stimuli like daylight and timekeeping	What did early research show people preferred as a day length?
"More-or-less independent circadian rhythms are found in many organs and cells in the body outside the suprachiasmatic nuclei , the ""master clock"""	Where else beside the SCN cells are independent circadian rhythms also found?
Elizabeth's many historic visits and meetings include a state visit to the Republic of Ireland and reciprocal visits to and from the Pope	Who is the world's oldest reigning monarch?
During the war, plans were drawn up to quell Welsh nationalism by affiliating Elizabeth more closely with Wales	Who did England propose to affiliate with Wales to quell Welsh nationalism?
Elizabeth and Philip were married on 20 November 1947 at Westminster Abbey	When were Elizabeth and Philip married?
Amid preparations for the coronation, Princess Margaret informed her sister that she wished to marry Peter Townsend, a divorcé‚ 16 years Margaret's senior, with two sons from his previous marriage	Who did Princess Margaret want to marry?
The Suez crisis and the choice of Eden's successor led in 1957 to the first major personal criticism of the Queen	Aside from her choice of Eden's successor, what crisis caused Elizabeth to be criticized?
A year later, at the height of the 1975 Australian constitutional crisis, the Australian Prime Minister, Gough Whitlam, was dismissed from his post by Governor-General Sir John Kerr, after the Opposition-controlled Senate rejected Whitlam's budget proposals	During the Australian constitutional crisis, what Prime Minister was dismissed?
In 1987, in Canada, Elizabeth publicly supported politically divisive constitutional amendments, prompting criticism from opponents of the proposed changes, including Pierre Trudeau	When did Elizabeth support constitutional amendments in Canada?
In 2002, Elizabeth marked her Golden Jubilee	What did Elizabeth celebrate in 2002?
The Queen, who opened the 1976 Summer Olympics in Montreal, also opened the 2012 Summer Olympics and Paralympics in London, making her the first head of state to open two Olympic Games in two different countries	When did Elizabeth open the Summer Olympics in Montreal?
Elizabeth's personal fortune has been the subject of speculation for many years	What has been a subject of speculation concerning Elizabeth's wealth?
Times of personal significance have included the births and marriages of her children, grandchildren and great grandchildren, her coronation in 1953, and the celebration of milestones such as her Silver, Golden and Diamond Jubilees in 1977, 2002, and 2012, respectively	When was Elizabeth's coronation?
Despite the death of Queen Mary on 24 March, the coronation on 2 June 1953 went ahead as planned, as Mary had asked before she died	When was the coronation of Elizabeth as Queen?
In 1957, she made a state visit to the United States, where she addressed the United Nations General Assembly on behalf of the Commonwealth	When did Elizabeth address the UN General Assembly?
In 1977, Elizabeth marked the Silver Jubilee of her accession	What Jubilee did Elizabeth celebrate in 1977?
"In the 1950s, as a young woman at the start of her reign, Elizabeth was depicted as a glamorous ""fairytale Queen"""	As what was Elizabeth portrayed in the 1950s?
The Royal Collection, which includes thousands of historic works of art and the Crown Jewels, is not owned by the Queen personally but is held in trust, as are her official residences, such as Buckingham Palace and Windsor Castle, and the Duchy of Lancaster, a property portfolio valued in 2014 at £442 million	What famous jewelry collection is held in trust by Elizabeth?
Elizabeth's only sibling, Princess Margaret, was born in 1930	Who was Elizabeth only sibling?P
In 1943, at the age of 16, Elizabeth undertook her first solo public appearance on a visit to the Grenadier Guards, of which she had been appointed colonel the previous year	At what age was Elizabeth when she went on her first solo public appearance?
The engagement was not without controversy: Philip had no financial standing, was foreign-born , and had sisters who had married German noblemen with Nazi links	Where did Philip serve during WWII?
During 1951, George VI's health declined and Elizabeth frequently stood in for him at public events	What was the state of George VI's health during 1951?
In 1956, the British and French prime ministers, Sir Anthony Eden and Guy Mollet, discussed the possibility of France joining the Commonwealth	When did the prime ministers of Britain and France discuss the idea of France joining the Commonwealth?
The 1960s and 1970s saw an acceleration in the decolonisation of Africa and the Caribbean	When did the decolonization of Africa and the Caribbean accelerate?
During the 1981 Trooping the Colour ceremony and only six weeks before the wedding of Charles, Prince of Wales, and Lady Diana Spencer, six shots were fired at the Queen from close range as she rode down The Mall on her horse, Burmese	During what ceremony were shots fired at the Queen?
Even though support for republicanism in Britain seemed higher than at any time in living memory, republicanism was still a minority viewpoint, and the Queen herself had high approval ratings	What political feeling is still a minority view in Britain?
The Queen addressed the United Nations for a second time in 2010, again in her capacity as Queen of all Commonwealth realms and Head of the Commonwealth	When was the second address to the UN by Elizabeth?
From 21 April 1944 until her accession, Elizabeth's arms consisted of a lozenge bearing the royal coat of arms of the United Kingdom differenced with a label of three points argent, the centre point bearing a Tudor rose and the first and third a cross of St George	Until she became queen, what flower was on Elizabeth's coat of arms?
Elizabeth was born in London to the Duke and Duchess of York, later King George VI and Queen Elizabeth, and was the elder of their two daughters	In what city was Elizabeth born?
During her grandfather's reign, Elizabeth was third in the line of succession to the throne, behind her uncle Edward, Prince of Wales, and her father, the Duke of York	When she was born, where in the order of succession was Elizabeth?
With Elizabeth's accession, it seemed probable that the royal house would bear her husband's name, becoming the House of Mountbatten, in line with the custom of a wife taking her husband's surname on marriage	What name was it assumed Elizabeth would take upon her marriage to Philip?
Eden recommended that she consult Lord Salisbury, the Lord President of the Council	Who did Eden recommend that Elizabeth consult about appointing a new Prime Minister?
In February 1974, the British Prime Minister, Edward Heath, advised the Queen to call a general election in the middle of her tour of the Austronesian Pacific Rim, requiring her to fly back to Britain	When did Edward Heath ask Elizabeth to call a general election?
Intense media interest in the opinions and private lives of the royal family during the 1980s led to a series of sensational stories in the press, not all of which were entirely true	What did high public interest in the private lives of the royal family cause in the press?
In 1997, a year after the divorce, Diana was killed in a car crash in Paris	What incident killed Diana in Paris?
Her Diamond Jubilee in 2012 marked 60 years on the throne, and celebrations were held throughout her realms, the wider Commonwealth, and beyond	How many years has Elizabeth been Queen?
As a constitutional monarch, she has not expressed her own political opinions in a public forum	What governmental style of monarch is Elizabeth?
Elizabeth was born at 02:40 on 21 April 1926, during the reign of her paternal grandfather, King George V	During whose reign was Elizabeth born?
In September 1939, Britain entered the Second World War, which lasted until 1945	When did Britain enter WWII?
Following their wedding, the couple leased Windlesham Moor, near Windsor Castle, until 4 July 1949, when they took up residence at Clarence House in London	Where did the newly married Elizabeth and Philip stay until 1949?
From Elizabeth's birth onwards, the British Empire continued its transformation into the Commonwealth of Nations	What entity did the British Empire slowly become during Elizabeth's reign?
", by the end of the 1970s the Queen was worried that the Crown ""had little meaning for"" Pierre Trudeau, the Canadian Prime Minister"	About whom was Elizabeth worried in the 1970s?
In a speech on 24 November 1992, to mark the 40th anniversary of her accession, Elizabeth called 1992 her annus horribilis, meaning horrible year	What did Elizabeth's speech on 24 November, 1992 mark?
"In May 2007, The Daily Telegraph, citing unnamed sources, reported that the Queen was ""exasperated and frustrated"" by the policies of the British Prime Minister, Tony Blair, that she was concerned the British Armed Forces were overstretched in Iraq and Afghanistan, and that she had raised concerns over rural and countryside issues with Blair"	Who, in 2007, frustrated Elizabeth?
The Queen surpassed her great-great-grandmother, Queen Victoria, to become the longest-lived British monarch in December 2007, and the longest-reigning British monarch on 9 September 2015	Who did Elizabeth surpass in longest lived British monarch?
At her Silver Jubilee in 1977, the crowds and celebrations were genuinely enthusiastic, but in the 1980s, public criticism of the royal family increased, as the personal and working lives of Elizabeth's children came under media scrutiny	When was Elizabeth's Silver Jubilee?
In each of her realms she has a distinct title that follows a similar formula: Queen of Jamaica and her other realms and territories in Jamaica, Queen of Australia and her other realms and territories in Australia, etc	What feature do Elizabeth's titles usually follow in each country?
They favor biologically-based theories, which point to genetic factors, the early uterine environment, both, or the inclusion of genetic and social factors	What is the favored influence as to the cause of sexual orientation?
"Sexual identity and sexual behavior are closely related to sexual orientation, but they are distinguished, with sexual identity referring to an individual's conception of themselves, behavior referring to actual sexual acts performed by the individual, and orientation referring to ""fantasies, attachments and longings"	What is sexual identity defined as?
Gay and lesbian people can have sexual relationships with someone of the opposite sex for a variety of reasons, including the desire for a perceived traditional family and concerns of discrimination and religious ostracism	What is one reason that a homosexual would engage in heterosexual behavior?
No major mental health professional organization has sanctioned efforts to change sexual orientation and virtually all of them have adopted policy statements cautioning the profession and the public about treatments that purport to change sexual orientation	How does the mental health profession approach efforts to change sexual orientation?
Berlin sexologist Magnus Hirschfeld published a scheme in 1896 that measured the strength of an individual's sexual desire on two independent 10-point scales, A and B 	Who was the sexologist that published a scheme in 1896?
A third concern with the Kinsey scale is that it inappropriately measures heterosexuality and homosexuality on the same scale, making one a tradeoff of the other	What was a concern of the Kinsey scale?
Research focusing on sexual orientation uses scales of assessment to identify who belongs in which sexual population group	How does research identify sexual population groups?
For this reason, in the 1970s Bruce Voeller, the chair of the National Gay and Lesbian Task Force perpetuated a common myth that the prevalence of homosexuality is 10% for the whole population by averaging a 13% number for men and a 7% number for women	What myth did Bruce Voeller perpetuate in the 70's?
Another study on men and women's patterns of sexual arousal confirmed that men and women have different patterns of arousal, independent of their sexual orientations	Do men and women's patterns of arousal differ?
Androphilia and gynephilia are terms used in behavioral science to describe sexual attraction, as an alternative to a homosexual and heterosexual conceptualization	What science terms are used to describe sexual attraction?
Translation is a major obstacle when comparing different cultures	What tends to be a major obstacle when comparing cultures?
The earliest writers on sexual orientation usually understood it to be intrinsically linked to the subject's own sex	Early writers linked orientation to what concept?
In the United States, non-Caucasian LGBT individuals may find themselves in a double minority, where they are neither fully accepted or understood by mainly Caucasian LGBT communities, nor are they accepted by their own ethnic group	Who is finding themselves in a double minority in the US?
""" Some studies report that "" lesbian women, and some heterosexual women as well, perceive choice as an important element in their sexual orientations"	What do some lesbian woman see as important part of the sexual orientation?
"In 2012, the Pan American Health Organization released a statement cautioning against services that purport to ""cure"" people with non-heterosexual sexual orientations as they lack medical justification and represent a serious threat to the health and well-being of affected people, and noted that the global scientific and professional consensus is that homosexuality is a normal and natural variation of human sexuality and cannot be regarded as a pathological condition"	When did part of the world health organization release a statement about curing homosexuals?
The classification scheme works such that individuals in the same category show the same balance between the heterosexual and homosexual elements in their histories	How does the classifiacation scheme work on the Kinsey scale?
The Sell Assessment of Sexual Orientation was developed to address the major concerns with the Kinsey Scale and Klein Sexual Orientation Grid and as such, measures sexual orientation on a continuum, considers various dimensions of sexual orientation, and considers homosexuality and heterosexuality separately	What does SASO stand for?
As there is no research indicating which of the three components is essential in defining sexual orientation, all three are used independently and provide different conclusions regarding sexual orientation	How are the three component used to determine sexual orientation?
A	When did Savin WIlliams talk about the issues with these components?
More recently, scientists have started to focus on measuring changes in brain activity related to sexual arousal, by using brain-scanning techniques	What have scientists started spending the most time on?
Perceived sexual orientation may affect how a person is treated	What can affect how a person is treated?
Most definitions of sexual orientation include a psychological component, such as the direction of an individual's erotic desires, or a behavioral component, which focuses on the sex of the individual's sexual partner/s	What do the majority of defintions surronding sexual orientation include?
Kinsey reported that when the individuals' behavior as well as their identity are analyzed, most people appeared to be at least somewhat bisexual — i	What did KInsey find during these studies ?
Innate bisexuality is an idea introduced by Sigmund Freud	What idea did Sigmund Freud bring to the table?
For example, people may use other labels, such as pansexual or polysexual, or none at all	Whar words may people use for sexual idenity?
"The American Psychological Association states that ""exual orientation refers to an enduring pattern of emotional, romantic, and/or sexual attractions to men, women, or both sexes"" and that ""his range of behaviors and attractions has been described in various cultures and nations throughout the world"	What does the American Physocological Association say that sexual orientation refers to?
"The National Association for Research & Therapy of Homosexuality , which describes itself as a ""professional, scientific organization that offers hope to those who struggle with unwanted homosexuality,"" disagrees with the mainstream mental health community's position on conversion therapy, both on its effectiveness and by describing sexual orientation not as a binary immutable quality, or as a disease, but as a continuum of intensities of sexual attractions and emotional affect"	What does NARTH stand for?
Using androphilia and gynephilia can avoid confusion and offense when describing people in non-western cultures, as well as when describing intersex and transgender people	What do the terms andophilia and gynephilia help prevent?
However, the scale has been criticized because it is still not a true continuum	What has the Kinsey scale been critisized for?
The SASO consists of 12 questions	How many questions does the SASO contain?
The exact causes for the development of a particular sexual orientation have yet to be established	Has the cause for sexual orientation been found yet?
One of the uses for scales that assess sexual orientation is determining what the prevalence of different sexual orientations are within a population	What can the scales for sexual orientation be used for?
As female fetuses have two X chromosomes and male ones a XY pair, the chromosome Y is the responsible for producing male differentiation on the defect female development	Which chromosome is responsible for produlcing male differentiation on defect female development?
One of the earliest sexual orientation classification schemes was proposed in the 1860s by Karl Heinrich Ulrichs in a series of pamphlets he published privately	Who created on of the earliest sexual classification schemes?
Valuable information was lost by collapsing the two values into one final score	What caused valuable information to be lost while using the KInsey scale?
"Of all the questions on the scale, Sell considered those assessing sexual attraction to be the most important as sexual attraction is a better reflection of the concept of sexual orientation which he defined as ""extent of sexual attractions toward members of the other, same, both sexes or neither"" than either sexual identity or sexual behavior"	What questions did Sell consider the most important on the KInsey scale?
The variance in prevalence rates is reflected in people's inconsistent responses to the different components of sexual orientation within a study and the instability of their responses over time	What reflects the prevalence rates varying?
Because sexual orientation is complex and multi-dimensional, some academics and researchers, especially in queer studies, have argued that it is a historical and social construction	Why do researches in homosexual studies argued that it is a social and historical constuction?
Some researchers who study sexual orientation argue that the concept may not apply similarly to men and women	What do some researchers argue about the idea of sexual orientation?
Research suggests that sexual orientation is independent of cultural and other social influences, but that open identification of one's sexual orientation may be hindered by homophobic/hetereosexist settings	What does research show about sexual orientation?
It is common to distinguish a person's sexuality according to their sexual role 	What is a common way to determine a persons sexuality?
Though researchers generally believe that sexual orientation is not determined by any one factor but by a combination of genetic, hormonal, and environmental influences, with biological factors involving a complex interplay of genetic factors and the early uterine environment, they favor biological models for the cause	What do researchers generally believe causes sexual orientation?
Sexual orientation is argued as a concept that evolved in the industrialized West, and there is a controversy as to the universality of its application in other societies or cultures	What concept is sexual orientation argued as?
"Some researchers, such as Bruce Bagemihl, have criticized the labels ""heterosexual"" and ""homosexual"" as confusing and degrading"	What does Bruce criticize the labels heterosexual and homsexual as?
Often, sexual orientation and sexual orientation identity are not distinguished, which can impact accurately assessing sexual identity and whether or not sexual orientation is able to change; sexual orientation identity can change throughout an individual's life, and may or may not align with biological sex, sexual behavior or actual sexual orientation	What can impact accurately assesing sexual identity?
Known as the fraternal birth order effect, this theory has been backed up by strong evidence of its prenatal origin, although no evidence thus far has linked it to an exact prenatal mechanism	What does the FBO effect stand for?
The Kinsey scale, also called the Heterosexual-Homosexual Rating Scale, was first published in Sexual Behavior in the Human Male by Alfred Kinsey, Wardell Pomeroy, and Clyde Martin and also featured in Sexual Behavior in the Human Female 	What other name does the KInsey scale go by?
In response to the criticism of the Kinsey scale only measuring two dimensions of sexual orientation, Fritz Klein developed the Klein sexual orientation grid , a multidimensional scale for describing sexual orientation	What does KSOG stand for?
Though sexual attraction, behavior, and identity are all components of sexual orientation, if a person defined by one of these dimensions were congruent with those defined by another dimension it would not matter which was used in assessing orientation, but this is not the case	What are sexual attraction. behavior, and idenity components of?
""", Ritch Savin-Williams proposes two different approaches to assessing sexual orientation until well positioned and psychometrically sound and tested definitions are developed that would allow research to reliably identify the prevalence, causes, and consequences of homosexuality"	"Who wrote the paper ""Whos Gay? Does It Matter?"
These studies suggest that men and women are different in terms of sexual arousal patterns and that this is also reflected in how their genitals react to sexual stimuli of both genders or even to non-human stimuli	What do these studies suggest?
One person may presume knowledge of another person's sexual orientation based upon perceived characteristics, such as appearance, clothing, tone of voice, and accompaniment by and behavior with other people	What can make a person believe they know someone elses sexual orientation?
Some studies only consider a person bisexual if they are nearly equally attracted to both sexes, and others consider a person bisexual if they are at all attracted to the same sex or to the opposite sex 	What is one way a study can view bisexuality?
For example, in many English-speaking nations, it is assumed that same-sex kissing, particularly between men, is a sign of homosexuality, whereas various types of same-sex kissing are common expressions of friendship in other nations	What can be assumed in english speaking nations when two men kiss?
Dell was listed at number 51 in the Fortune 500 list, until 2014	What number was dell on the Fortune 500 list until 2014?
Originally, Dell did not emphasize the consumer market, due to the higher costs and unacceptably low profit margins in selling to individuals and households; this changed when the company’s Internet site took off in 1996 and 1997	What market did Dell ignore at first?
Dell had long stuck by its direct sales model	What sales model did Dell use for a long time?
In the shrinking PC industry, Dell continued to lose market share, as it dropped below Lenovo in 2011 to fall to number three in the world	What industry was getting smaller?
Dell's manufacturing process covers assembly, software installation, functional testing , and quality control	Which of Dell's processes handles PC assembly, testing, and quality control?
Dell advertisements have appeared in several types of media including television, the Internet, magazines, catalogs and newspapers	What type of Dell media has appeared on TV, on the internet, and in magazines?
In May 2008, Dell reached an agreement with office supply chain, Officeworks , to stock a few modified models in the Inspiron desktop and notebook range	What year did Dell make an agreement with Officeworks?
announced that after an internal investigation into its accounting practices it would restate and reduce earnings from 2003 through to the first quarter of 2007 by a total amount of between $50 million and $150 million, or 2 cents to 7 cents per share	What department did Dell launch an internal investigation on?
In the mid-1990s, Dell expanded beyond desktop computers and laptops by selling servers, starting with low-end servers	What decade did Dell begin to sell things other than PCs?
The slowing sales growth has been attributed to the maturing PC market, which constituted 66% of Dell's sales, and analysts suggested that Dell needed to make inroads into non-PC businesses segments such as storage, services and servers	What market made up the majority of Dell's sales?
"By the late 2000s, Dell's ""configure to order"" approach of manufacturing—delivering individual PCs configured to customer specifications from its US facilities was no longer as efficient or competitive with high-volume Asian contract manufacturers as PCs became powerful low-cost commodities"	What decade did Dell's manufacturing process become less efficient?
It's thought that the company's value has roughly doubled since then	How much has Dell's value increased since they went private?
Dell opened plants in Penang, Malaysia in 1995, and in Xiamen, China in 1999	In what foreign country did Dell open plants in 1995?
Michael Dell, the founder of the company, serves as chairman of the board and chief executive officer	Who is the founder of Dell?
In the early 1990s, Dell sold its products through Best Buy, Costco and Sam's Club stores in the United States	What decade did Dell sell electronics through big box stores?
Dell became the first company in the information technology industry to establish a product-recycling goal and completed the implementation of its global consumer recycling-program in 2006	What was Dell the first IT company to establish?
In the 1990s, Dell switched from using primarily ATX motherboards and PSU to using boards and power supplies with mechanically identical but differently wired connectors	What decade did Dell switch to PSUs and boards that had differently wired connectors?
Dell traces its origins to 1984, when Michael Dell created Dell Computer Corporation, which at the time did business as PC's Limited, while a student of the University of Texas at Austin	When did Michael Dell found his company?
From 1997 to 2004, Dell enjoyed steady growth and it gained market share from competitors even during industry slumps	What did Dell enjoy from 1997 to 2004?
Dell had a reputation as a company that relied upon supply chain efficiencies to sell established technologies at low prices, instead of being an innovator	What did Dell rely on that gave it a reputation?
While chairman of the board after relinquishing his CEO position, Michael Dell still had significant input in the company during Rollins' years as CEO	Who relinquished his position as CEO to take a seat on the board?
Dell has been attempting to offset its declining PC business, which still accounted for half of its revenue and generates steady cash flow, by expanding into the enterprise market with servers, networking, software, and services	How much of Dell's revenue was its PC division?
Dell facilities in the United States are located in Austin, Texas; Plano, Texas; Nashua, New Hampshire; Nashville, Tennessee; Oklahoma City, Oklahoma; Peoria, Illinois; Hillsboro, Oregon ; Winston-Salem, North Carolina; Eden Prairie, Minnesota ; Bowling Green, Kentucky; Lincoln, Nebraska; and Miami, Florida	What city is Dell's New Hampshire facility in?
Assembly of desktop computers for the North American market formerly took place at Dell plants in Austin, Texas and Lebanon, Tennessee , which have been closed in 2008 and early 2009, respectively	What city is Dell's Texas facility in?
Dell committed to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from its global activities by 40% by 2015, with 2008 fiscal year as the baseline year	What emissions did Dell strive to reduce?
In July 2009, Dell apologized after drawing the ire of the Taiwanese Consumer Protection Commission for twice refusing to honour a flood of orders against unusually low prices offered on its Taiwanese website	What year did Dell come under fire from the Taiwanese Consumer Protection Commission?
"The company is well known for its innovations in supply chain management and electronic commerce, particularly its direct-sales model and its ""build-to-order"" or ""configure to order"" approach to manufacturing—delivering individual PCs configured to customer specifications"	Innovations in what kind of management is Dell known for?
In 1993, to complement its own direct sales channel, Dell planned to sell PCs at big-box retail outlets such as Wal-Mart, which would have brought in an additional $125 million in annual revenue	What year did Dell plan to sell PCs at retailers?
In 1986, Michael Dell brought in Lee Walker, a 51-year-old venture capitalist, as president and chief operating officer, to serve as Michael's mentor and implement Michael's ideas for growing the company	What year did Michael Dell bring in Lee Walker to the company?
corporate PC market, as desktop PCs sold to both commercial and corporate customers accounted for 32 percent of its revenue, 85 percent of its revenue comes from businesses, and Sixty-four percent of its revenue comes from North and South America, according to its 2006 third-quarter results	What percentage of Dell's profits were desktop PCs being sold to commercial and corporate buyers?
The release of Apple's iPad tablet computer had a negative impact on Dell and other major PC vendors, as consumers switched away from desktop and laptop PCs	The release of what electronic had a negative impact on Dell?
Dell's reputation for poor customer service, since 2002, which was exacerbated as it moved call centres offshore and as its growth outstripped its technical support infrastructure, came under increasing scrutiny on the Web	What did Dell have a poor reputation for?
In March 2013, the Blackstone Group and Carl Icahn expressed interest in purchasing Dell	What year did the Blackstone Group express interest in acquiring Dell?
On April 23, 2008, Dell announced the closure of one of its biggest Canadian call-centers in Kanata, Ontario, terminating approximately 1100 employees, with 500 of those redundancies effective on the spot, and with the official closure of the center scheduled for the summer	What year did Dell close its largest Canadian call center?
The combined business is expected to address the markets for scale-out architecture, converged infrastructure and private cloud computing, playing to the strengths of both EMC and Dell	What type of computing is the combined effort of EMC and Dell slated to address?
After several weeks of rumors, which started around January 11, 2013, Dell announced on February 5, 2013 that it had struck a $24	What year did Dell announce its buyout deal?
In 2000, Dell announced that it would lease 80,000 square feet of space in the Las Cimas office complex in unincorporated Travis County, Texas, between Austin and West Lake Hills, to house the company's executive offices and corporate headquarters	How much space did Dell lease in Texas?
Dell previously had its headquarters in the Arboretum complex in northern Austin, Texas	What Texas city was Dell's headquarters previously in?
Dell assembled computers for the EMEA market at the Limerick facility in the Republic of Ireland, and once employed about 4,500 people in that country	For what market did Dell make computers for in Ireland?
"In addition, the company provides protection services, advisory services, multivendor hardware support, ""how-to"" support for software applications, collaborative support with many third-party vendors, and online parts and labor dispatching for customers who diagnose and troubleshoot their hardware"	What kind of hardware support does Dell provide?
Dell service and support brands include the Dell Solution Station , Dell Support Center , Dell Business Support , Dell Everdream Desktop Management , and Your Tech Team 	What is the alternate name for the Dell Solution Station?
In late 2006, Dell lost its lead in the PC-business to Hewlett-Packard	What year did Dell lose its tech lead to Hewlett-Packard?
Dell was the first company to publicly state a timeline for the elimination of toxic polyvinyl chloride and brominated flame retardants , which it planned to phase out by the end of 2009	What toxic chemical did Dell set to eliminate from its products?
Issues included call transfers of more than 45% of calls and long wait times	What percentage of Dell support calls were transferred?
The company aims to reduce its external environmental impact through energy-efficient evolution of products, and also reduce its direct operational impact through energy-efficiency programs	What does Dell aim to reduce by creating energy efficient products?
If a defendant is sentenced to death at the trial level, the case then goes into a direct review	What process begins after a death sentence is handed down at trial?
Under the Antiterrorism and Effective Death Penalty Act of 1996, a state prisoner is ordinarily only allowed one suit for habeas corpus in federal court	In what year was the Antiterrorism and Effective Death Penalty Act passed?
The moratorium ended on January 17, 1977 with the shooting of Gary Gilmore by firing squad in Utah	Who was executed by firing squad on January 17, 1977?
"Electric chairs have commonly been nicknamed Old Sparky; however, Alabama's electric chair became known as the ""Yellow Mama"" due to its unique color"	What was a common nickname for the electric chair?
Other states with long histories of no death penalty include Wisconsin , Rhode Island , Maine, North Dakota, Minnesota, West Virginia, Iowa, and Vermont	What state has had only a single execution?
Within the context of the overall murder rate, the death penalty cannot be said to be widely or routinely used in the United States; in recent years the average has been about one execution for about every 700 murders committed, or 1 execution for about every 325 murder convictions	In the United States, how many murders are there for each execution?
"Puerto Rico's constitution expressly forbids capital punishment, stating ""The death penalty shall not exist"", setting it apart from all U"	"What territory's constitution says ""The death penalty shall not exist""?"
Capital punishment was suspended in the United States from 1972 through 1976 primarily as a result of the Supreme Court's decision in Furman v	In what year was the death penalty suspended in the US?
"Connecticut General Statute § 54–100 requires death sentences to be conducted in an ""enclosure"" which ""shall be so constructed as to exclude public view"	"What state's law says that death sentences must take place in an ""enclosure""?"
In 1976, contemporaneously with Woodson and Roberts, the Court decided Gregg v	In what year was Gregg v. Georgia decided?
Possibly in part due to expedited federal habeas corpus procedures embodied in the Antiterrorism and Effective Death Penalty Act of 1996, the pace of executions picked up, reaching a peak of 98 in 1999 and then they declined gradually to 28 in 2015	How many executions occurred in 1999?
"Demarcus Sears remains under a death sentence in Georgia for the crime of ""kidnapping with bodily injury"	In November 2008, who was on death penalty without a murder conviction?
Where the prisoner received his death sentence in a state-level trial, as is usually the case, the first step in collateral review is state collateral review	When a prisoner is given a death sentence in a state, what is the first step of collateral review?
In the 2006 Hill v	In what year was Hill v. McDonough decided?
The largest single execution in United States history was the hanging of 38 American Indians convicted of murder and rape during the Dakota War of 1862	How many people were killed in the largest mass execution in US history?
The scope of federal habeas corpus is governed by the Antiterrorism and Effective Death Penalty Act of 1996, which restricted significantly its previous scope	What act restricted the scope of federal habeas corpus?
In New Jersey and Illinois, all death row inmates had their sentences commuted to life in prison without parole when the death penalty repeal bills were signed into law	Along with New Jersey, what state commuted all life sentences when bills to repeal the death penalty were passed?
Lynaugh and the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit in Bigby v	In what court was Bigby v. Dretke decided?
(However, the United States government executed Tony Chebatoris at the Federal Correctional Institution in Milan, Michigan in 1938	In what year was Tony Chebatoris killed?
For offenses under the Drug Kingpin Act of 1988, the method of execution is lethal injection	Under what federal statute are offenses punished by lethal injection?
"In October 2009, the American Law Institute voted to disavow the framework for capital punishment that it had created in 1962, as part of the Model Penal Code, ""in light of the current intractable institutional and structural obstacles to ensuring a minimally adequate system for administering capital punishment"	In what year did the American Law Institute create a death penalty framework for the Model Penal Code?
In 1977, the Supreme Court's Coker v	In what year was Coker v. Georgia decided?
Four states in the modern era, Nebraska in 2008, New York and Kansas in 2004, and Massachusetts in 1984, had their statutes ruled unconstitutional by state courts	In what year was Nebraska's death penalty statute ruled unconstitutional by a state court?
manufacturer of sodium thiopental, stopped making the drug in 2011	What death penalty drug ceased to be manufactured in 2011?
The highest level of support for the death penalty recorded overall was 80 percent in 1994 , and the lowest recorded was 42 percent in 1966 	In what year did the most polled American support capital punishment?
Other capital crimes include: the use of a weapon of mass destruction resulting in death, espionage, terrorism, certain violations of the Geneva Conventions that result in the death of one or more persons, and treason at the federal level; aggravated rape in Louisiana, Florida, and Oklahoma; extortionate kidnapping in Oklahoma; aggravated kidnapping in Georgia, Idaho, Kentucky and South Carolina; aircraft hijacking in Alabama and Mississippi; assault by an escaping capital felon in Colorado; armed robbery in Georgia; drug trafficking resulting in a person's death in Florida; train wrecking which leads to a person's death, and perjury which leads to a person's death in California, Colorado, Idaho and Nebraska	What is a notable capital crime in Louisiana?
The narrowest opinions, those of Byron White and Potter Stewart, expressed generalized concerns about the inconsistent application of the death penalty across a variety of cases but did not exclude the possibility of a constitutional death penalty law	Aside from Stewart, what justice believed that the death penalty could be constitutional?
In total, 156 prisoners have been either acquitted, or received pardons or commutations on the basis of possible innocence, between 1973 to 2015	Between 1973 and 2015, how amny prisoners were acquitted or received pardons or commutations of their death sentences due to possible innocence?
5 percent of murderers convicted nationwide were sentenced to the death penalty, in Nevada 6 percent were given the death penalty	How many murderers in Nevada were given a capital sentence?
Congress acted defiantly toward the Supreme Court by passing the Drug Kingpin Act of 1988 and the Federal Death Penalty Act of 1994 that made roughly fifty crimes punishable by death, including crimes that do not always involve the death of someone	Under the Drug Kingpin Act of 1988 and Federal Death Penalty Act of 1994, about how many crimes were punishable by death?
Executions resumed on January 17, 1977, when Gary Gilmore went before a firing squad in Utah	Who was executed on January 17, 1977?
After the September 2011 execution of Troy Davis, believed by many to be innocent, Richard Dieter, the director of the Death Penalty Information Center, said this case was a clear wake-up call to politicians across the United States	In what month and year was Troy Davis executed?
Various methods have been used in the history of the American colonies and the United States but only five methods are currently used	How many execution methods are currently used in the United States?
African Americans made up 41 percent of death row inmates while making up only 12	What percentage of American death row prisoners are African American?
Typically, it involves four critical steps: sentencing, direct review, state collateral review, and federal habeas corpus	In the United States, how many important steps are usually present in the administration of capital punishment?
All of the executions which have taken place since the 1936 hanging of Bethea in Owensboro have been conducted within a wall or enclosure	Where was Bethea hanged?
"James Liebman, a professor of law at Columbia Law School, stated in 1996 that his study found that when habeas corpus petitions in death penalty cases were traced from conviction to completion of the case that there was ""a 40 percent success rate in all capital cases from 1978 to 1995"	What institution does James Liebman work for?
The last use of the firing squad between 1608 and the moratorium on judicial executions between 1967 and 1977 was when Utah shot James W	What method of execution was used on James W. Rodgers?
Since 1642 an estimated 364 juvenile offenders have been put to death by the states and the federal government	About how many American juveniles have been executed since 1642?
In May 2014, Oklahoma Director of Corrections, Robert Patton, recommended an indefinite hold on executions in the state after the botched execution of African-American Clayton Lockett	As of May 2014, what was Robert Patton's job title?
Furthermore, some opponents argue that the arbitrariness with which it is administered and the systemic influence of racial, socio-economic, geographic, and gender bias on determinations of desert make the current practice of capital punishment immoral and illegitimate	Along with gender, geography and race, what bias do some opponents of the death penalty see in its administration?
Sixteen was held to be the minimum permissible age in the 1988 Supreme Court decision of Thompson v	According to Thompson v. Oklahoma, what was the youngest age at which a person might be executed?
""" For example, in 1919, the Missouri legislature adopted a statute (L"	In what year did Missouri pass a law stating that executions should be inside of or near a jail?
Previous post-Furman mass clemencies took place in 1986 in New Mexico, when Governor Toney Anaya commuted all death sentences because of his personal opposition to the death penalty	Who commuted all state capital sentences in 1986?
In 2010, bills to abolish the death penalty in Kansas and in South Dakota were rejected	Along with South Dakota, what state rejected a death penalty abolition bill in 2010?
Pharmaceutical companies whose products are used in the three-drug cocktails for lethal injections are predominantly European, and they have strenuously objected to the use of their drugs for executions and taken steps to prevent their use	How many drugs are used to administer lethal injection?
"A study by Pepperdine University School of Law published in Temple Law Review, ""Unpredictable Doom and Lethal Injustice: An Argument for Greater Transparency in Death Penalty Decisions,"" surveyed the decision-making process among prosecutors in various states"	"What University studied ""Predictable Doom""?"
French historians traditionally place the Enlightenment between 1715, the year that Louis XIV died, and 1789, the beginning of the French Revolution	In what year did Louis XIV die?
"Francis Hutcheson, a moral philosopher, described the utilitarian and consequentialist principle that virtue is that which provides, in his words, ""the greatest happiness for the greatest numbers"""	"Which moral philosopher said ""the greatest happiness for the greatest numbers""?"
"James Thomson penned his ""Poem to the Memory of Newton,"" which mourned the loss of Newton, but also praised his science and legacy"	"Who wrote ""Poem to the Memory of Newton?"""
John Locke, one of the most influential Enlightenment thinkers, based his governance philosophy in social contract theory, a subject that permeated Enlightenment political thought	What did John Locke base his governance philosphy in?
For Locke the law of nature is grounded on mutual security, or the idea that one cannot infringe on another's natural rights, as every man is equal and has the same inalienable rights	How does John Locke define mutual security?
Thomas Jefferson in the Jefferson Bible went further; he dropped any passages dealing with miracles, visitations of angels, and the resurrection of Jesus after his death	Who dropped any passages dealing with miracles or visitations of angels from his work the Jefferson Bible?
For example, in France it became associated with anti-government and anti-Church radicalism while in Germany it reached deep into the middle classes and where it expressed a spiritualistic and nationalistic tone without threatening governments or established churches	In which country did the Enlightenment become associated with anti-government and anti-Church radicalism?
From the start there was a Counter-Enlightenment in which conservative and clerical defenders of traditional religion attacked materialism and skepticism as evil forces that encouraged immorality	What two ideas did conservative and clerical defenders of traditional religion attack as evil forces that encouraged immorality?
French historians usually place the period, called the Siècle des Lumières , between 1715 and 1789, from the beginning of the reign of Louis XV until the French Revolution	Most scholars use the beginning of the Napoleonic Wars or which other battle as a convenient date to end the Enlightenment?
The creation of the public sphere has been associated with two long-term historical trends: the rise of the modern nation state and the rise of capitalism	The creation of the public sphere is associated with the rise of capitalism and which other historical trend?
The desire to explore, record and systematize knowledge had a meaningful impact on music publications	The desire to explore, record and systematize knowledge had a meaningful impact on what other form of publication?
Many women played an essential part in the French Enlightenment, due to the role they played as salonnières in Parisian salons, as the contrast to the male philosophes	What was the principal social institution of the republic during the French Enlightenment?
On one end of the spectrum was the Bibliothèque Bleue, a collection of cheaply produced books published in Troyes, France	Where was Bibliotheque Bleue located?
The target audience of natural history was French polite society, evidenced more by the specific discourse of the genre than by the generally high prices of its works	Who was the target audience of natural history?
The first technical dictionary was drafted by John Harris and entitled Lexicon Technicum: Or, An Universal English Dictionary of Arts and Sciences	Who drafted the first technical dictionary?
The first significant work that expressed scientific theory and knowledge expressly for the laity, in the vernacular, and with the entertainment of readers in mind, was Bernard de Fontenelle's Conversations on the Plurality of Worlds 	What book was published in 1686 specifically for women with an interest in scientific writing?
The practice of contests dated back to the Middle Ages, and was revived in the mid-17th century	The practice of contests dates back to what time period?
The first English coffeehouse opened in Oxford in 1650	Where did the first English coffeehouse open in 1650?
Historians have long debated the extent to which the secret network of Freemasonry was a main factor in the Enlightenment	Diderot, Voltaire, Mozart, Goethe, and Benjamin Franklin were all members of what secret network?
Some European rulers, including Catherine II of Russia, Joseph II of Austria and Frederick I of Prussia, tried to apply Enlightenment thought on religious and political tolerance, which became known as enlightened absolutism	Trying to apply Enlightenment thought on religious and political tolerance became known as what?
Kant's work continued to shape German thought, and indeed all of European philosophy, well into the 20th century	Kant's work continued to shape German thought and European philosophy well into what century?
Hume and other Scottish Enlightenment thinkers developed a 'science of man', which was expressed historically in works by authors including James Burnett, Adam Ferguson, John Millar, and William Robertson, all of whom merged a scientific study of how humans behaved in ancient and primitive cultures with a strong awareness of the determining forces of modernity	The basis of classical liberalism comes from whose philosophical concepts?
Both Locke and Rousseau developed social contract theories in Two Treatises of Government and Discourse on Inequality, respectively	What did Locke, Hobbes, and Rousseau agree was necessary for a man to live in civil society?
"These rulers are called ""enlightened despots"" by historians"	Leaders of the Enlightenment that helped design laws and programs to reform the court system are called what by historians?
A good religion based in instinctive morals and a belief in God should not theoretically need force to maintain order in its believers, and both Mendelssohn and Spinoza judged religion on its moral fruits, not the logic of its theology	Did Mendelssohn and Spinoza judge religion on its moral fruits or logic of its theology??
In the Scottish Enlightenment, Scotland's major cities created an intellectual infrastructure of mutually supporting institutions such as universities, reading societies, libraries, periodicals, museums and masonic lodges	Who did Voltaire say that France looked to for ideas of civilization?
"The term ""Enlightenment"" emerged in English in the later part of the 19th century, with particular reference to French philosophy, as the equivalent of the French term 'Lumières' "	In what year was the French term Lumieres first used?
""" Rising efficiency in production techniques and communication lowered the prices of consumer goods and increased the amount and variety of goods available to consumers "	Did rising efficiency in production and communication lower or raise the prices of consumer goods?
As the economy and the middle class expanded, there was an increasing number of amateur musicians	A the economy and middle class expanded, what artistic profession had an increasing number of members?
In France, the established men of letters had fused with the elites of French society by the mid-18th century	By what century in France had the men of letters fused with the elites?
The first scientific and literary journals were established during the Enlightenment	During which movement were the first scientific and literary journals established?
The Marperger Curieuses Natur-, Kunst-, Berg-, Gewerkund Handlungs-Lexicon explained terms that usefully described the trades and scientific and commercial education	Which work published in 1712 explained terms that usefully described the trades and scientific and commercial education?
More importantly, the contests were open to all, and the enforced anonymity of each submission guaranteed that neither gender nor social rank would determine the judging	What enforced contest rule guaranteed that neither gender nor social rank would determine the judging?
The Café Procope was established in Paris in 1686; by the 1720s there were around 400 cafés in the city	Where was the Cafe Procope established in 1686?
Freemasonry as a systematic creed with its own myths, values and set of rituals originated in Scotland around 1600 and spread first to England and then across the Continent in the eighteenth century	Where did Freemasonry originate?
"Locke is known for his statement that individuals have a right to ""Life, Liberty and Property"", and his belief that the natural right to property is derived from labor"	"Who is known for his statement that individuals have a right to ""Life, Liberty and Property""?"
Frederick the Great, the king of Prussia from 1740 to 1786, saw himself as a leader of the Enlightenment and patronized philosophers and scientists at his court in Berlin	Which king of Prussia saw himself as the leader of the Enlightenment?
Several Americans, especially Benjamin Franklin and Thomas Jefferson, played a major role in bringing Enlightenment ideas to the New World and in influencing British and French thinkers	Which American Enlightenment sympathiser was known for his political activism and advances in physics?
The writers of Grub Street, the Grub Street Hacks, were left feeling bitter about the relative success of the men of letters, and found an outlet for their literature which was typified by the libelle	What term was given to the writers of Grub Street?
Coffeehouses were especially important to the spread of knowledge during the Enlightenment because they created a unique environment in which people from many different walks of life gathered and shared ideas	Which venue created a unique environment in which people from many different walks of life could gather and share ideas?
Natural history in particular became increasingly popular among the upper classes	Did natural history in particular become increasingly popular amoung the upper or lower classes?
This was especially true on the Continent: when the first lodges began to appear in the 1730s, their embodiment of British values was often seen as threatening by state authorities	In what decade did the first Masonic lodges appear on the Continent?
Coffeehouses represent a turning point in history during which people discovered that they could have enjoyable social lives within their communities	Which venue represents a turning point in history during which people discovered that they could have enjoyable social lives within their communities?
The major opponent of Freemasonry was the Roman Catholic Church, so that in countries with a large Catholic element, such as France, Italy, Spain, and Mexico, much of the ferocity of the political battles involve the confrontation between what Davies calls the reactionary Church and enlightened Freemasonry	Who was the major opponent to Freemasonry?
The Enlightenment – known in French as the Siècle des Lumières, the Century of Enlightenment, and in German as the Aufklärung – was a philosophical movement which dominated the world of ideas in Europe in the 18th century	How was the Enlightenment known in French?
In the mid-18th century, Paris became the center of an explosion of philosophic and scientific activity challenging traditional doctrines and dogmas	Which city in the mid-18th century became the center of an explosion of philosophic and scientific activity?
The most influential publication of the Enlightenment was the Encyclopédie, compiled by Denis Diderot and by Jean le Rond d'Alembert and a team of 150 scientists and philosophers	What was the most influential publication of the Enlightenment?
There were two distinct lines of Enlightenment thought: the radical enlightenment, inspired by the philosophy of Spinoza, advocating democracy, individual liberty, freedom of expression, and eradication of religious authority; and a second, more moderate variety, supported by René Descartes, John Locke, Christian Wolff, Isaac Newton and others, which sought accommodation between reform and the traditional systems of power and faith	The radical enlightenment was inspired by the philosophy of whom?
"The ""Radical Enlightenment"" promoted the concept of separating church and state, an idea that often credited to English philosopher John Locke "	Who is credited with the concept of separating church and state?
Deism, according to Thomas Paine, is the simple belief in God the Creator, with no reference to the Bible or any other miraculous source	According to Thomas Paine, what is the definition of Deism?
Additionally, most institutions of the public sphere excluded both women and the lower classes	Whixh population groups were excluded from most institutions of the public sphere?
"The increased consumption of reading materials of all sorts was one of the key features of the ""social"" Enlightenment"	"The increased consumption of what type of material was one of the key features of the ""social"" Enlightenment?"
As musicians depended more and more on public support, public concerts became increasingly popular and helped supplement performers' and composers' incomes	Whose incomes did public concerts help support?
The history of Academies in France during the Enlightenment begins with the Academy of Science, founded in 1635 in Paris	What year was the Academy of Science in France founded?
Many of the leading universities associated with Enlightenment progressive principles were located in northern Europe, with the most renowned being the universities of Leiden, Göttingen, Halle, Montpellier, Uppsala and Edinburgh	Where were many of the leading universities associated with Enlightenment progressive principles located?
The predominant educational psychology from the 1750s onward, especially in northern European countries was associationism, the notion that the mind associates or dissociates ideas through repeated routines	How can associationism be defined?
However, the prime example of reference works that systematized scientific knowledge in the age of Enlightenment were universal encyclopedias rather than technical dictionaries	What were the prime examples of reference works that systemasized scientific knowledge in the age oif Enlightenment?
The study of science, under the heading of natural philosophy, was divided into physics and a conglomerate grouping of chemistry and natural history, which included anatomy, biology, geology, mineralogy, and zoology	Anatomy, biology, geology, mineralogy, and zoology are all studies of which subject?
Many Enlightenment writers and thinkers had backgrounds in the sciences and associated scientific advancement with the overthrow of religion and traditional authority in favour of the development of free speech and thought	Many Enlightenment writers and thinkers had backgrounds in the sciences and associated scientific advancement with overthrow of religion and traditional authority in favor of what?
Cesare Beccaria, a jurist and one of the great Enlightenment writers, became famous for his masterpiece Of Crimes and Punishments , which was later translated into 22 languages	For which masterpiece did Cesare Beccaria become famous?
However, contemporary sources distinguished universities from scientific societies by claiming that the university's utility was in the transmission of knowledge, while societies functioned to create knowledge	What did contemporary sources claim was the purpose of the universiity in contrast to the societies?
The Enlightenment has been frequently linked to the French Revolution of 1789	The Enlightenment is frequently linked to the French Revolution of what year?
"In his 1767 An Essay on the History of Civil Society, Ferguson uses the four stages of progress, a theory that was very popular in Scotland at the time, to explain how humans advance from a hunting and gathering society to a commercial and civil society without ""signing"" a social contract"	"In what work did Ferguson explain how humans advanced from a hunting and gathering society to a commercial and civil society without ""signing"" a social contract?"
In Russia, the government began to actively encourage the proliferation of arts and sciences in the mid-18th century	What century produced the first Russian univeristy, library, theatre, public museum, and independent press?
Bertrand Russell saw the Enlightenment as a phase in a progressive development, which began in antiquity, and that reason and challenges to the established order were constant ideals throughout that time	Which philosopher believed that the Enlightenment was ultimately born out of Protestant reaction against the Catholic counter-reformation?
Alexis de Tocqueville described the French Revolution as the inevitable result of the radical opposition created in the 18th century between the monarchy and the men of letters of the Enlightenment	How did Alexis de Tocqueville describe the French Revolution?
In 1783, Jewish philosopher Moses Mendelssohn referred to Enlightenment as a process by which man was educated in the use of reason	Which Jewish philosopher referred to Enlightenment as a process by which man was educated in the use of reason?
"Thomas Jefferson called for a ""wall of separation between church and state"" at the federal level"	John Locke, Francis Bacon, and Isaac Newton where considered the the greatest men who ever lived by which American colonist?
From a historical standpoint, one of the most important features of the debating society was their openness to the public; women attended and even participated in almost every debating society, which were likewise open to all classes providing they could pay the entrance fee	From a historical standpoint, what was one of the most important features of the debating society?
Intellectuals such as Robert Darnton and Jürgen Habermas have focused on the social conditions of the Enlightenment	What aspect of the Enlightenment did Robert Darnton and Jurgen Habermas focus on within the Enlightenment?
He instead focuses on the history of ideas in the period from 1650 to the end of the 18th century, and claims that it was the ideas themselves that caused the change that eventually led to the revolutions of the latter half of the 18th century and the early 19th century	What do Jonathon Israel claim caused the change that eventually led to the revolutions of the latter half of the 18th centure and early 19th century?
"One of the primary elements of the culture of the Enlightenment was the rise of the public sphere, a ""realm of communication marked by new arenas of debate, more open and accessible forms of urban public space and sociability, and an explosion of print culture,"" in the late 17th century and 18th century"	How was the public sphere defined?
Across continental Europe, but in France especially, booksellers and publishers had to negotiate censorship laws of varying strictness	Book sellers and publishers had to negotiate censorship laws of varying strictness in what country, especially?
The Encyclopédie, for example, condemned not only by the King but also by Clement XII, nevertheless found its way into print with the help of the aforementioned Malesherbes and creative use of French censorship law	Who helped The Encyclopedie find its way into print using the French censorship law creatively?
"It was a forum that supported ""free public examination of questions regarding religion or legislation"""	What did the Republic of Letters support?
Jonathan Israel called the journals the most influential cultural innovation of European intellectual culture	Who called the journals the most influential cultural innovation of European intellectual culture?
Although the existence of dictionaries and encyclopedias spanned into ancient times, the texts changed from simply defining words in a long running list to far more detailed discussions of those words in 18th-century encyclopedic dictionaries	How did dictionaries and encyclopedias change in the 18th century?
""" The tree reflected the marked division between the arts and sciences, which was largely a result of the rise of empiricism"	The rise of empiricism caused a division between which two subjects?
In England, the Royal Society of London also played a significant role in the public sphere and the spread of Enlightenment ideas	Which society in England also played a significant role in the public sphere and spread of Enlightenment ideas?
"Before the Enlightenment, most intellectual debates revolved around ""confessional"" – that is, Catholic, Lutheran, Reformed , or Anglican issues, and the main aim of these debates was to establish which bloc of faith ought to have the ""monopoly of truth and a God-given title to authority"""	Before the Enlightenment, most intellectual debates revoled around what subject?
"German historian Reinhart Koselleck claimed that ""On the Continent there were two social structures that left a decisive imprint on the Age of Enlightenment: the Republic of Letters and the Masonic lodges"	According to German historian Reinhart Koselleck, which two social structures left a decisive imprint on the Age of Enlightenment?
Along with secular matters, readers also favoured an alphabetical ordering scheme over cumbersome works arranged along thematic lines	What ordering scheme did readers prefer?
The new literate population was due to a high rise in the availability of food	What caused an increasingly literate population to develop in the Enlightenment era?
Katsuyah Nakawaka attached a Game & Watch D-pad to the Famicom prototype and found that it was easy to use and had no discomfort	Who attached a Game & Watch D-pad to the Famicom prototype?
"This is the system which would eventually be officially deployed as the Nintendo Entertainment System, or the colloquial ""NES"""	What was the abbreviation for Nintendo Entertainment System?
In June 1989, Nintendo of America's vice president of marketing Peter Main, said that the Famicom was present in 37% of Japan's households	In June 1989 who was Nintendo of America's vice president of marketing?
Japanese cartridges are shaped slightly differently	Which cartridges were shaped slightly differently?
In the longer run, however, with the NES near its end of its life many third-party publishers such as Electronic Arts supported upstart competing consoles with less strict licensing terms such as the Sega Genesis and then the PlayStation, which eroded and then took over Nintendo's dominance in the home console market, respectively	With the NES at its end, which competing consoles with less strict licensing terms were supported?
Nintendo took steps to stop game rentals, but didn't take any formal legal action until Blockbuster Video began to make game rentals a large-scale service	Who caused Nintendo to take formal action regarding rentals?
"In the UK, Italy and Australia which share the PAL A region, two versions of the NES were released; the ""Mattel Version"" and ""NES Version"""	Which company distributed the NES to the UK, Italy, and Australia?
Nintendo also made two turbo controllers for the NES called NES Advantage and the NES Max	What were the two turbo controllers Nintendo made for the NES?
In 1986, Nintendo released the Famicom Disk System in Japan, a type of floppy drive that uses a single-sided, proprietary 5 cm disk and plugs into the cartridge port	What year did Nintendo release the Famicom Disk System?
The system was originally targeted for release in the spring of 1985, but the release date was pushed back	When was the system originally supposed to be released?
In Europe and Australia, the system was released to two separate marketing regions	Where was the system released to two separate marketing areas?
As the 1990s dawned, gamers predicted that competition from technologically superior systems such as the 16-bit Sega Mega Drive/Genesis would mean the immediate end of the NES’s dominance	Which example of a system started to mark the end of the NES dominance?
Unlike Atari, which never actively courted third-party developers , Nintendo had anticipated and encouraged the involvement of third-party software developers; strictly, however, on Nintendo's terms	Who did Atari attempt to force ceasing production of games for its system?
Most of these companies created circuits that used a voltage spike to temporarily disable the 10NES chip in the NES	Companies did what in an effort to circumvent Nintendo's console authentication?
The Nintendo Entertainment System is an 8-bit home video game console that was developed and manufactured by Nintendo	What is the abbreviation of Nintendo Entertainment System?
Problems with the 10NES lockout chip frequently resulted in the console's most infamous problem: the blinking red power light, in which the system appears to turn itself on and off repeatedly because the 10NES would reset the console once per second	What was the console's most common problem?
5 million units in Japan and Nintendo soon announced plans to release it in North America as the Advanced Video Entertainment System that same year	What was this system to be called in North America?
Near the end of the NES's lifespan, upon the release of the AV Famicom and the top-loading NES 2, the design of the game controllers was modified slightly	Which console featured a top-loading design?
By 1988, industry observers stated that the NES's popularity had grown so quickly that the market for Nintendo cartridges was larger than that for all home computer software	What year did Nintendo's market surpass all computer software?
Nintendo also charged developers considerable amounts of money to produce FDS games, and many refused to develop for it, instead continuing to make cartridge titles	Nintendo charged producers hefty sums to make what?
The Sharp Corporation produced at least two such clones: the Twin Famicom and the SHARP 19SC111 television	Which company produced the Twin Famicom and the 19SC111 TV?
With the exception of The Legend of Zelda and Zelda II: The Adventure of Link, manufactured in gold-plastic carts, all licensed NTSC and PAL cartridges are a standard shade of gray plastic	The Zelda games were manufactured in what color cartridge?
Nintendo was accused of antitrust behavior because of the strict licensing requirements	What was Nintendo accused of?
The first emulator was the Japanese-only Pasofami	What was the first NES emulator?
The Famicom contained no lockout hardware and, as a result, unlicensed cartridges were extremely common throughout Japan and the Far East	What did the Famicom sorely lack?
Masayuki Uemura designed the system	Who designed the Famicom system?
Such devices included, but were not limited to, the Zapper , the R	What was the light gun controller called?
The video game market crash of 1983 had occurred in significant part due to a lack of consumer and retailer confidence in video games, which had in turn been due partially to confusion and misrepresentation in the marketing of video games	What year did the video game market crash?
99 , included R	How much was the selling price equivalent to in today's money?
The unlicensed clone market has flourished following Nintendo's discontinuation of the NES	What thrived after the NES was discontinued?
Before the NES/Famicom, Nintendo was known as a moderately successful Japanese toy and playing card manufacturer, and the popularity of the NES/Famicom helped the company grow into an internationally recognized name almost synonymous with video games as Atari had been during the 2600 era and set the stage for Japanese dominance of the video game industry	Nintendo produced toys and what other item before its game system?
Atari Games created a line of NES products under the name Tengen and took a different approach	Atari created NES products under which name?
In December 1993, the Famicom received a similar redesign	What month and year did the Famicom receive a redesign?
The NES uses a custom-made Picture Processing Unit developed by Ricoh	Who developed Nintendo's PPU?
Nintendo entered into negotiations with Atari to release the Famicom under Atari’s name as the name Nintendo Advanced Video Gaming System	Nintendo agreed with Atari to release the Famicom under what name?
"The overall system was referred to as an ""Entertainment System"" instead of a ""video game system"", which was centered upon a machine called a ""Control Deck"" instead of a ""console"", and which featured software cartridges called ""Game Paks"" instead of ""video games"""	"What was Nintendo's euphemism for ""video game system?"""
The original model Famicom featured two game controllers, both of which were hardwired to the back of the console	How were the Famicom controllers attached to the console?
Nintendo was not as restrictive as Sega, which did not permit third-party publishing until Mediagenic in late summer 1988	When did Sega finally permit third-party publishing?
One result of this philosophy was to disguise the cartridge slot design as a front-loading zero insertion force cartridge socket, designed to resemble the front-loading mechanism of a VCR	What does ZIF stand for?
"In response to these hardware flaws, ""Nintendo Authorized Repair Centers"" sprang up across the U"	To address the shoddy hardware, what popped up across the United States?
The original HVC-001 model of the Family Computer featured only radio frequency modulator output	The HVC-001 featured which kind of mod output?
The NES dropped the hardwired controllers, instead featuring two custom 7-pin ports on the front of the console	How many pins did the controller ports have on the NES?
7	How many pins did the controller ports have on the SNES?
In particular, the Dendy , an unlicensed hardware clone produced in Taiwan and sold in the former Soviet Union, emerged as the most popular video game console of its time in that setting and it enjoyed a degree of fame roughly equivalent to that experienced by the NES/Famicom in North America and Japan	What was the name of the NES clone produced in Taiwan?
The television it is connected to is meant to be placed atop it	How large was the typical television recommended for the device?
Saint Athanasius of Alexandria (/ˌæθəˈneɪʃəs/; Greek: Ἀθανάσιος Ἀλεξανδρείας, Athanásios Alexandrías; c	Who was the twentieth bishop of Alexandria?
He at length consented to accept a responsibility that he sought in vain to escape, and was consecrated in 326, when he was about thirty years of age	In what year was Athanasius consecrated?
"Athanasius, after remaining some days in the neighbourhood of the city, finally withdrew into the desert of Upper Egypt, where he remained for a period of six years, living the life of the monks, devoting himself to the composition of a group of writings; ""Apology to Constantius"", the ""Apology for his Flight"", the ""Letter to the Monks"", and the ""History of the Arians"""	Where did Athanasius remain for 6 years while living as a monk?
The Emperor Constantius, who had been the cause of so much trouble, died 4 November, 361 and was succeeded by Julian	Who succeeded Emperor Constantius?
The accession of Valens gave a fresh lease of life to the Arian party	What party benefited from the accession of Valens?
Depicting Anthony as an illiterate and holy man who through his existence in a primordial landscape has an absolute connection to the divine truth, the biography also resembles the life of his biographer Athanasius	Who wrote the biography entitled Life of Antony?
In 325, at the age of 27, Athanasius began his leading role against the Arians as his bishop's assistant during the First Council of Nicaea	Athanasius began his leading role at what age?
Rufinus relates a story that as Bishop Alexander stood by a window, he watched boys playing on the seashore below, imitating the ritual of Christian baptism	As a child, Athanasius imitated what ritual?
 This persecution was most severe in the East, particularly in Egypt and Palestine	Where was persecution of Christianity the worst?
He embraced a subordinationist Christology which taught that Christ was the divine Son of God, made, not begotten, heavily influenced by Alexandrian thinkers like Origen, and which was a common Christological view in Alexandria at the time	Was this differing view common among Christians of the day?
Athanasius's episcopate began on 9 May 328 as the Alexandrian Council elected Athanasius to succeed the aged Alexander	Who did Athanasius succeed?
Early in the year 343 we find Athanasius had travelled, via Rome, from Alexandria, North Africa, to Gaul; nowadays Belgium / Holland and surrounding areas, where Hosius of Cordoba was Bishop, the great champion of orthodoxy in the West	Where is Gaul currently located?
Pope Julius had died in April, 352, and was succeeded by Liberius	In what year did Pope Julius die?
Constantius, renewing his previous policies favoring the Arians, banished Athanasius from Alexandria once again	Who had a policy of condemning Athanasius?
Constantius, summoned the bishops of the East to meet at Seleucia in Isauria, and those of the West to Rimini in Italy	Where did bishops of the West meet?
In the meanwhile, Julian, who seems to have become suddenly jealous of the influence that Athanasius was exercising at Alexandria, addressed an order to Ecdicius, the Prefect of Egypt, peremptorily commanding the expulsion of the restored primate, on the ground that he had never been included in the imperial act of clemency	Who was jealous of Athanasius's influence?
Completed probably early in his life, before the Arian controversy, they constitute the first classic work of developed Orthodox theology	When did he write his first works on Orthodox Christianity?
Forbes research and reference to Pope Saint Gregory's writings, it would appear that Athanasius was constrained to be Bishop: She writes that when the Patriarch Alexander was on his death-bed he called Athanasius, who fled fearing he would be constrained to be made Bishop	What did he do when he thought he might be made Bishop?
Throughout most of his career, Athanasius had many detractors	Was Athanasius well liked by everyone?
"Nonetheless, within a few years of his death, Gregory of Nazianzus called him the ""Pillar of the Church"""	What was he known as soon after he died?
Alexandria was the most important trade center in the whole empire during Athanasius's boyhood	What was Alexandria known for?
However Cornelius Clifford places his birth no earlier than 296 and no later than 298, based on the fact that Athanasius indicates no first hand recollection of the Maximian persecution of 303, which he suggests Athanasius would have remembered if he had been ten years old at the time	What famous event happened in 303?
Athanasius's first problem lay with Meletius of Lycopolis and his followers, who had failed to abide by the First Council of Nicaea	Did the followers of Meletius obey the guidelines of Nicaea?
Athanasius knew Greek and admitted not knowing Hebrew [see, e	Did Athanasius speak Greek?
After the death of the replacement bishop Gregory in 345, Constans used his influence to allow Athanasius to return to Alexandria in October 345, amidst the enthusiastic demonstrations of the populace	Who did he have to thank for his ability to come back to Alexandria in 345?
Forbes writes that when the Patriarch Alexander was on his death-bed he called Athanasius, who fled fearing he would be constrained to be made Bishop	What did Athanasius do to avoid speaking to Alexander on his deathbed?
Constantius, ordered Liberius into exile in 356 giving him, then, three days to comply	How much warning was Liberius given before his exile?
When Emperor Constantine I died, Athanasius was allowed to return to his See of Alexandria	At what point could Athanasius return to Alexandria?
The fathers terrified of the threats of the Emperor, an avowed Arian, they consented to the condemnation of Athanasius	Why did the Bishops condemn Athanasius?
In 361, after the death of Emperor Constantius, shortly followed by the murder of the very unpopular Bishop George, Athanasius returned to his patriarchate	What happened to Bishop George?
Two years later, the Emperor Valens, who favored the Arian position, in his turn exiled Athanasius	What Christian beliefs did Emperor Valens adhere to?
Athanasius is the first person to identify the same 27 books of the New Testament that are in use today	Who standardized the books of the New Testament?
"This letter shows clearly his stand that accepting Jesus is the Divine Son of God is not optional but necessary; ""I know moreover that not only this thing saddens you, but also the fact that while others have obtained the churches by violence, you are meanwhile cast out from your places"	Did Athanasius feel that it was important to believe that Jesus was the Son of God?
"Alban Butler, writes on the subject: ""Five months after this great Council, Nicae, St Alexander lying on his death-bed, recommended to his clergy and people the choice of Athanasius for his successor, thrice repeating his name"	How did the people know that Alexander had chosen Athanasius as his successor?
The Gospel of John and particularly the first chapter demonstrates the Divinity of Jesus	Which of the Gospels most agrees with Athanasius?
Scholars now believe that the Arian Party was not monolithic, but held drastically different theological views that spanned the early Christian theological spectrum	Did all Arians believe the same things?
Logging was Seattle's first major industry, but by the late 19th century the city had become a commercial and shipbuilding center as a gateway to Alaska during the Klondike Gold Rush	To what golden event was Seattle the portal?
Seattle is a West Coast seaport city and the seat of King County	Of which Washington county is Seattle the center?
After a difficult winter, most of the Denny Party relocated across Elliott Bay and claimed land a second time at the site of present-day Pioneer Square	What group of settlers established a site at Pioneer Square?
"The name ""Seattle"" appears on official Washington Territory papers dated May 23, 1853, when the first plats for the village were filed"	At what date did the name Seattle first appear on official papers?
The first such boom, covering the early years of the city, rode on the lumber industry	What was the industry source that produced Seattle's first financial vigor?
The second and most dramatic boom and bust resulted from the Klondike Gold Rush, which ended the depression that had begun with the Panic of 1893; in a short time, Seattle became a major transportation center	After lumbering, what was Seattle's second big economic boom?
War work again brought local prosperity during World War II, this time centered on Boeing aircraft	During WWII what company added substantially to Seattle's economy?
Seattle was also the home base of impresario Alexander Pantages who, starting in 1902, opened a number of theaters in the city exhibiting vaudeville acts and silent movies	What type of theater did Alexander Pantages start in Seattle?
Seattle remained the corporate headquarters of Boeing until 2001, when the company separated its headquarters from its major production facilities; the headquarters were moved to Chicago	When did Boeing move its headquarters to Chicago?
A shipbuilding boom in the early part of the 20th century became massive during World War I, making Seattle somewhat of a company town; the subsequent retrenchment led to the Seattle General Strike of 1919, the first general strike in the country	When was ship building the economic master in Seattle?
As prosperity began to return in the 1980s, the city was stunned by the Wah Mee massacre in 1983, when 13 people were killed in an illegal gambling club in the International District, Seattle's Chinatown	What violent act happened in Seattle's Chinatown in 1983?
Seattle in this period attracted widespread attention as home to these many companies, but also by hosting the 1990 Goodwill Games and the APEC leaders conference in 1993, as well as through the worldwide popularity of grunge, a sound that had developed in Seattle's independent music scene	What sporting event did Seattle sponsor in 1990?
Seattle is located between the saltwater Puget Sound to the west and Lake Washington to the east	What water mass is located west of Seattle?
For the five years beginning in 2010, Seattle gained an average of 14,511 residents per year, with the growth strongly skewed toward the center of the city, as unemployment dropped from roughly 9 percent to 3	When did Amazon begin its latest expansion?
Due to its location in the Pacific Ring of Fire, Seattle is in a major earthquake zone	What hazardous geologic area does Seattle inhabit?
Like Rome, the city is said to lie on seven hills; the lists vary, but typically include Capitol Hill, First Hill, West Seattle, Beacon Hill, Queen Anne, Magnolia, and the former Denny Hill	What other famous city, besides Seattle, lies on seven hills?
Around 80 mi to the west, the Hoh Rain Forest in Olympic National Park on the western flank of the Olympic Mountains receives an annual average precipitation of 142 in (3	Where on the Olympic Peninsula does the rainfall average 142 inches a year?
In November, Seattle averages more rainfall than any other U	During which month does Seattle get more precipitation than other US cities?
Temperature extremes are moderated by the adjacent Puget Sound, greater Pacific Ocean, and Lake Washington	What does the local water ways regulate in the Seattle area?
The Puget Sound Convergence Zone is an important feature of Seattle's weather	What is a very significant part of Seattle's weather system?
Seattle typically receives some snowfall on an annual basis but heavy snow is rare	What type of snowfall is not often seen in Seattle?
8 °C), with 28 annual days with lows that reach the freezing mark, and 2	How many winter days reach freezing in Seattle?
Seattle experiences its heaviest rainfall during the months of November, December and January, receiving roughly half of its annual rainfall during this period	What type of weather does Seattle have in the winter months?
In 2006, after growing by 4,000 citizens per year for the previous 16 years, regional planners expected the population of Seattle to grow by 200,000 people by 2040	How many more people does Seattle expect to have by 2040?
Seattle's foreign-born population grew 40% between the 1990 and 2000 censuses	How much did Seattle's foreign born population expand between 1990-2000?
Seattle's population historically has been predominantly white	What is the basic race of most people in Seattle?
Four companies on the 2013 Fortune 500 list of the United States' largest companies, based on total revenue, are headquartered in Seattle: Internet retailer Amazon	How many of the Fortune 500 companies are based in Seattle?
Prior to moving its headquarters to Chicago, aerospace manufacturer Boeing was the largest company based in Seattle	Before they moved to Chicago, what was the biggest company headquartered in Seattle?
The city's gross metropolitan product was $231 billion in 2010, making it the 11th largest metropolitan economy in the United States	What was Seattle's gross product in 2010?
This was the second-highest proportion of any major U	How does the numbers in the gay community rank compared to other US cities?
"Seattle has ""around 100"" theatrical production companies and over two dozen live theatre venues, many of them associated with fringe theatre; Seattle is probably second only to New York for number of equity theaters "	How many theater companies does Seattle have in residence?
The century-old Seattle Symphony Orchestra is among the world's most recorded and performs primarily at Benaroya Hall	How old is Seattle's Symphony Orchestra?
"Seattle's current official nickname is the ""Emerald City"", the result of a contest held in 1981; the reference is to the lush evergreen forests of the area"	What is Seattle's present nickname?
Among Seattle's prominent annual fairs and festivals are the 24-day Seattle International Film Festival, Northwest Folklife over the Memorial Day weekend, numerous Seafair events throughout July and August , the Bite of Seattle, one of the largest Gay Pride festivals in the United States, and the art and music festival Bumbershoot, which programs music as well as other art and entertainment over the Labor Day weekend	What Seattle fair lasts 24 days?
Seattle also hosted the 2001 national Poetry Slam Tournament	When did Seattle host the national Poetry Slam Tournament?
Seattle is considered the home of grunge music, having produced artists such as Nirvana, Soundgarden, Alice in Chains, Pearl Jam, and Mudhoney, all of whom reached international audiences in the early 1990s	What genre of music are Nirvana and Soundgarden?
The Henry Art Gallery opened in 1927, the first public art museum in Washington	When did the first art gallery open in Washington state?
There are other annual events, ranging from the Seattle Antiquarian Book Fair & Book Arts Show; an anime convention, Sakura-Con; Penny Arcade Expo, a gaming convention; a two-day, 9,000-rider Seattle to Portland Bicycle Classic, and specialized film festivals, such as the Maelstrom International Fantastic Film Festival, the Seattle Asian American Film Festival , Children's Film Festival Seattle, Translation: the Seattle Transgender Film Festival, the Seattle Gay and Lesbian Film Festival, and the Seattle Polish Film Festival	What anime convention is held in Seattle?
Seattle's professional sports history began at the start of the 20th century with the PCHA's Seattle Metropolitans, which in 1917 became the first American hockey team to win the Stanley Cup	What was the first American hockey team to win a Stanley Cup?
The Seahawks have advanced to the Super Bowl three times: 2005, 2013 and 2014	How many times have the Seattle Seahawks played in the World Series?
Seattle is widely considered one of the most liberal cities in the United States, even surpassing its neighbor, Portland, Oregon	What is Seattle thought to be politically?
Seattle's political culture is very liberal and progressive for the United States, with over 80% of the population voting for the Democratic Party	How many people in Seattle vote Democratic?
Federally, Seattle is part of Washington's 7th congressional district, represented by Democrat Jim McDermott, elected in 1988 and one of Congress's liberal members	Of what Congressional district is Seattle a part?
The city was listed as the most literate of the country's 69 largest cities in 2005 and 2006, the second most literate in 2007 and the most literate in 2008 in studies conducted by Central Connecticut State University	How was Seattle ranked on literacy in 2005-2006?
Non-commercial radio stations include NPR affiliates KUOW-FM 94	What type of radio stations abound in Seattle?
As of 2010, Seattle has one major daily newspaper, The Seattle Times	What is the Seattle newspaper as of 2010?
King County Metro provides frequent stop bus service within the city and surrounding county, as well as a South Lake Union Streetcar line between the South Lake Union neighborhood and Westlake Center in downtown	What is Seattle's bus line called?
Located in the Laurelhurst neighborhood, Seattle Children's, formerly Children's Hospital and Regional Medical Center, is the pediatric referral center for Washington, Alaska, Montana, and Idaho	What kind of hospital is Seattle Children's?
The first streetcars appeared in 1889 and were instrumental in the creation of a relatively well-defined downtown and strong neighborhoods at the end of their lines	In what year were the first streetcars used in Seattle?
The main mode of transportation, however, relies on Seattle's streets, which are laid out in a cardinal directions grid pattern, except in the central business district where early city leaders Arthur Denny and Carson Boren insisted on orienting their plats relative to the shoreline rather than to true North	What is mainly used for transportation in Seattle?
Seattle is home to the University of Washington, as well as the institution's professional and continuing education unit, the University of Washington Educational Outreach	What educational institution is at home in Seattle?
The city has started moving away from the automobile and towards mass transit	On what type of transportation system has Seattle begun to focus?
Storage is the second memory stage or process	What is the second memory stage?
Conrad found that test subjects had more difficulty recalling collections of letters that were acoustically similar (e	What did conrad find about test subjects?
Short-term memory allows recall for a period of several seconds to a minute without rehearsal	What exactly does short-term memory allow a person to do?
The storage in sensory memory and short-term memory generally has a strictly limited capacity and duration, which means that information is not retained indefinitely	Why can't some memories be held onto forever?
For example, short-term memory can be broken up into different units such as visual information and acoustic information	What are some examples of units that short-term memory can be categorized in to?
The hippocampus is essential to the consolidation of information from short-term to long-term memory, although it does not seem to store information itself	Which part of the brain does long-term memory rely on?
Sensory memory holds sensory information less than one second after an item is perceived	How long does sensory memory to to store information?
While short-term memory encodes information acoustically, long-term memory encodes it semantically: Baddeley discovered that, after 20 minutes, test subjects had the most difficulty recalling a collection of words that had similar meanings (e	How does short term memory encode information?
Infants do not have the language ability to report on their memories and so verbal reports cannot be used to assess very young children’s memory	Why do infants and young childrens memories need to be assesed differently?
Thus, retrospective memory as a category includes semantic, episodic and autobiographical memory	What are some catgories of retrospective memory?
Later research showed this to be false	Was Hebb's thought of the relationship between short and long term memory true?
One question that is crucial in cognitive neuroscience is how information and mental experiences are coded and represented in the brain	Is it important to know how information is coded in the brain?
Cognitive neuroscientists consider memory as the retention, reactivation, and reconstruction of the experience-independent internal representation	What do cognitive neuroscientists believe memory is?
In contrast, procedural memory is not based on the conscious recall of information, but on implicit learning	What is another term for procedural memory?
The working memory model explains many practical observations, such as why it is easier to do two different tasks than two similar tasks (e	Which model explains why bob has an easier time reading a book, and then discussing it rather than reading two books?
One of the key concerns of older adults is the experience of memory loss, especially as it is one of the hallmark symptoms of Alzheimer's disease	What do most elderly people worry about?
It should be noted that although 6-month-olds can recall information over the short-term, they have difficulty recalling the temporal order of information	Does a 6 month old have short term memory?
"Episodic memories often reflect the ""firsts"" in life such as a first kiss, first day of school or first time winning a championship"	When remembering your first day of school or first dance, which memory are you using?
Stress has a significant effect on memory formation and learning	What can cause your memory to deterioriate or not work as well?
Interference can hamper memorization and retrieval	What trouble can interference cause?
Furthermore, research has revealed that as infants grow older they can store information for longer periods of time; 6-month-olds can recall information after a 24-hour period, 9-month-olds after up to five weeks, and 20-month-olds after as long as twelve months	Does a persons memory capacity increase with age?
For example, the hippocampus is believed to be involved in spatial learning and declarative learning, while the amygdala is thought to be involved in emotional memory	What role does the amygdala play in memory?
Research shows that subjects placed in a stressful situation for a short amount of time still have blood glucocorticoid levels that have increased drastically when measured after the exposure is completed	Whar does research show happens to blood glucorticoid levels during stressful events?
The CA1 neurons found in the hippocampus are destroyed due to glucocorticoids decreasing the release of glucose and the reuptake of glutamate	What neurons are damaged during stressful events?
There have been several studies which show that sleep improves the retention of memory, as memories are enhanced through active consolidation	Does sleep hurt a persons memory?
A UCLA research study published in the June 2006 issue of the American Journal of Geriatric Psychiatry found that people can improve cognitive function and brain efficiency through simple lifestyle changes such as incorporating memory exercises, healthy eating, physical fitness and stress reduction into their daily lives	Can one increase their brain efficency?
Other neurological disorders such as Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's disease can also affect memory and cognition	What diseases can have a major imact on memory?
Influences on the brain include increases in neurotransmitter levels, improved oxygen and nutrient delivery, and increased neurogenesis in the hippocampus	What positive things can happen to your brain when you excersise?
However, memory performance can be enhanced when material is linked to the learning context, even when learning occurs under stress	What can impact memory performance in a positive way?
Interestingly, research has revealed that asking individuals to repeatedly imagine actions that they have never performed or events that they have never experienced could result in false memories	What can cause a person to have fake memories?
In fact, research has revealed that our memories are constructed	What has research shown about our memories?
Rote learning is the method most often used	What is the most widely used way in learing?
In 1790, the first federal population census was taken in the United States	When was the first federal population census taken in the US?
By 1990, the Census Bureau included more than a dozen ethnic/racial categories on the census, reflecting not only changing social ideas about ethnicity, but the wide variety of immigrants who had come to reside in the United States due to changing historical forces and new immigration laws in the 1960s	The Census Bureau had gone from two categories to how many by the 1990s?
"As slavery became a racial caste, those who were enslaved and others of any African ancestry were classified by what is termed ""hypodescent"" according to the lower status ethnic group"	What were slaves and others of African ancestry classified by what term?
After a lengthy period of formal racial segregation in the former Confederacy following the Reconstruction Era, and bans on interracial marriage in various parts of the country, more people are openly forming interracial unions	When was there a period of formal racial segregation?
Anti-miscegenation laws were passed in most states during the 18th, 19th and early 20th centuries, but this did not prevent white slaveholders, their sons, or other powerful white men from taking slave women as concubines and having multiracial children with them	What were put in place to prevent the mix of races?
After the American Revolutionary War, the number and proportion of free people of color increased markedly in the North and the South as slaves were freed	When did the numbers of free people of color increase dramatically?
In their attempt to ensure white supremacy decades after emancipation, in the early 20th century, most southern states created laws based on the one-drop rule, defining as black, persons with any known African ancestry	What is the one-drop rule?
While many Americans may be biologically multiracial, they often do not know it or do not identify so culturally, any more than they maintain all the differing traditions of a variety of national ancestries	Are all muticultural Americans aware of their cultural heritage?
The African-American Civil Rights Movement and other social movements since the mid-twentieth century worked to achieve social justice and equal enforcement of civil rights under the constitution for all ethnicities	What occured from 1955 to 1968?
"Some Europeans living among Indigenous Americans were called ""white Indians"""	"Who were considered ""white Indians""?"
In the colonial years, while conditions were more fluid, white women, indentured servant or free, and African men, servant, slave or free, made unions	When could white women and black men be in a union?
Tracing the genealogy of African Americans can be a very difficult process, as censuses did not identify slaves by name before the American Civil War, meaning that most African Americans did not appear by name in those records	Who were not identified by name on the census before the civil war?
During the 1800s Christian missionaries from Great Britain and the United States followed traders to the Hawaiian islands	Who brought Christian missionaries to Hawaii?
After regaining political power in Southern states by disenfranchising blacks, white Democrats passed laws to impose Jim Crow and racial segregation to restore white supremacy	Who are blamed in this paragraph for Jim Crow laws?
hen ancestry in one of these racial minority groups does not exceed one-fourth, a person is not defined solely as a member of that group	A person is not a member of a racial minority if ancetry does not what?
Geneticists acknowledge that DNA testing cannot yet distinguish among members of differing cultural Native American nations	Who says genetic tests can't tell the difference between different Native American nations?
"Typically, about five race choices are given, with the instruction to ""check only one"	How many racial choices are there on standardized tests?
More importantly, social acceptance often played a bigger role in how a person was perceived and how identity was construed than any law	What usually played a larger role than laws regarding a person's race?
Together with publicity about the ancestry of President Barack Obama, whose father was from Kenya, some black writers have argued that new terms are needed for recent immigrants	The President's father is from what country?
In the 1980s, parents of mixed-race children began to organize and lobby for the addition of a more inclusive term of racial designation that would reflect the heritage of their children	When did multiracial people start to organize for more inclusive racial identifiers?
The social identity of the children was strongly determined by the tribe's kinship system	What determined a child's social identity?
In the late nineteenth century, Charles Eastman, a physician of European and Sioux ancestry who trained at Boston University, married Elaine Goodale, a European-American woman from New England	Who was a doctor?
"Stewart's assertion that ""most"" African Americans have significant Native American heritage, is not supported by genetic researchers who have done extensive population mapping studies"	Who disproved Sherrel's hypothesis?
Interracial relationships have had a long history in North America and the United States, beginning with the intermixing of European explorers and soldiers, who took native women as companions	What jobs did the earliest Europeans who mingled with natives hold?
Of numerous relationships between male slaveholders, overseers, or master's sons and women slaves, the most notable is likely that of President Thomas Jefferson with his slave Sally Hemings	President Thomas Jefferson had a relationship with who?
The binary division altered the separate status of the traditionally free people of color in Louisiana, for instance, although they maintained a strong Louisiana Créole culture related to French culture and language, and practice of Catholicism	As an example, whose status was downgraded after the civil war?
Chinese men entered the United States as laborers, primarily on the West Coast and in western territories	Where did most Chinese men enter the US?
Multiracial people who wanted to acknowledge their full heritage won a victory of sorts in 1997, when the Office of Management and Budget changed the federal regulation of racial categories to permit multiple responses	What office is responsible for the census form changes?
Laws dating from 17th-century colonial America defined children of African slave mothers as taking the status of their mothers, and born into slavery regardless of the race or status of the father, under partus sequitur ventrem	What was the result of a child having an African mother?
Because he has no slave blood in him	Why did Steele think people were not attacking Barrack Obama?
For instance, on April 5, 1614, Pocahontas, a Powhatan woman in present-day Virginia, married the Englishman John Rolfe of Jamestown	When was the wedding of Rolfe and Pocahontas?
Colonial records of French and Spanish slave ships and sales, and plantation records in all the former colonies, often have much more information about slaves, from which researchers are reconstructing slave family histories	What has helped geneologists researching slaves?
European colonists created treaties with Indigenous American tribes requesting the return of any runaway slaves	Who did colonists ask for help in returning runaway slaves?
Virginia and other English colonies passed laws in the 17th century that gave children the social status of their mother, according to the principle of partus sequitur ventrem, regardless of the father's race or citizenship	What did the laws passed in the 17th century do?
Many Latin American migrants have been mestizo, Amerindian, or other mixed race	What are many Latin American migrants?
In Virginia prior to 1920, for example, a person was legally white if having seven-eights or more white ancestry	Before 1920, how would a person be white by law?
"Stanley Crouch wrote in a New York Daily News piece ""Obama's mother is of white U"	Who wrote an article in the New York Dail News about Obama?
"Whereas most responses can be distinguished as falling into one of the five enumerated races, there remains some write-in responses which fall into the ""Mixture"" heading which cannot be racially categorized"	"What does the ""mixture"" heading mean?"
Interracial relations between Indigenous Americans and African Americans is a part of American history that has been neglected	What is considered to be neglected in American history?
Some biographical accounts include the autobiography Life on the Color Line: The True Story of a White Boy Who Discovered He Was Black by Gregory Howard Williams; One Drop: My Father's Hidden Life—A Story of Race and Family Secrets written by Bliss Broyard about her father Anatole Broyard; the documentary Colored White Boy about a white man in North Carolina who discovers that he is the descendant of a white plantation owner and a raped African slave; and the documentary on The Sanders Women of Shreveport, Louisiana	What documentary features a white man in North Carolina?
By the 1980s, parents of mixed-race children began to organize and lobby for the ability to show more than one ethnic category on Census and other legal forms	When did people lobby for allowing more than one category to be selected on legal forms?
In the early 19th century, the Indigenous American woman Sacagawea, who would help translate for and guide the Lewis and Clark Expedition in the West, married the French trapper Toussaint Charbonneau	Who married Sacagewea?
For African Americans, the one-drop rule was a significant factor in ethnic solidarity	What brought African Americans together?
"The figure of the ""tragic octoroon"" was a stock character of abolitionist literature: a mixed-race woman raised as if a white woman in her white father's household, until his bankruptcy or death has her reduced to a menial position She may even be unaware of her status before being reduced to victimization"	What stock character lived with her white father until he left the picture?
It is estimated that in the 11th century Ashkenazi Jews composed only three percent of the world's Jewish population, while at their peak in 1931 they accounted for 92 percent of the world's Jews	By 1931, what percentage of the world’s Jews were Ashkenazi Jews?
In the Yoma tractate of the Babylonian Talmud the name Gomer is rendered as Germania, which elsewhere in rabbinical literature was identified with Germanikia in northwestern Syria, but later became associated with Germania	In which tractate of the Babylonian Talmud is the name Gomer given as Germania?
 King Dagobert I of the Franks expelled the Jews from his Merovingian kingdom in 629	Who expelled the Jews from his Merovingian kingdom in 629?
During the first decades of Israel as a state, strong cultural conflict occurred between Sephardic and Ashkenazi Jews 	When Israel was in its infancy as a state, there were cultural conflicts between which two groups?
"Culturally, an Ashkenazi Jew can be identified by the concept of Yiddishkeit, which means ""Jewishness"" in the Yiddish language"	Culturally, an Ashkenazi Jew can be identified by what concept?
For roughly a thousand years, the Ashkenazim were a reproductively isolated population in Europe, despite living in many countries, with little inflow or outflow from migration, conversion, or intermarriage with other groups, including other Jews	For what period of time were the Ashkenazim a reproductively isolated population in Europe?
Relations between Ashkenazim and Sephardim have not always been warm	In the past have relations between Ashkenazim and Sephardim tended to be warm or cold?
", using SNP microarray techniques and linkage analysis found that when assuming Druze and Palestinian Arab populations to represent the reference to world Jewry ancestor genome, between 35 to 55 percent of the modern Ashkenazi genome can possibly be of European origin, and that European ""admixture is considerably higher than previous estimates by studies that used the Y chromosome"" with this reference point"	What percentage of the modern Ashkenazi genome could possibly be of European origin?
These studies—researching both their paternal and maternal lineages—point to a significant prevalence of ancient Levantine origins	Genetic studies on Ashkenazim have found a significant prevalence of what type of origins?
In conformity with the custom of designating areas of Jewish settlement with biblical names, Spain was denominated Sefarad , France was called Tsarefat , and Bohemia was called the Land of Canaan	The custom of designating areas of Jewish settlement with biblical names meant that Spain was referred to as what?
Charlemagne's expansion of the Frankish empire around 800, including northern Italy and Rome, brought on a brief period of stability and unity in Francia	Did Charlemagne's expansion of the Frankish empire bring about a brief period of upheaval or stability in Francia?
Furthermore, Jews lived almost exclusively in shtetls, maintained a strong system of education for males, heeded rabbinic leadership, and scorned the life-style of their neighbors; and all of these tendencies increased with every outbreak of antisemitism	The lack of assimilation of Jews in central and eastern Europe lies in part to the fact that they lived almost exclusively in what?
According to 16th-century mystic Rabbi Elijah of Chelm, Ashkenazi Jews lived in Jerusalem during the 11th century	Who noted that Ashkenazi Jews lived in Jerusalem during the 11th century?
8 million Jews living in Europe at the beginning of World War II, the majority of whom were Ashkenazi, about 6 million – more than two-thirds – were systematically murdered in the Holocaust	Of the large number of Jews living in Europe at the beginning of World War II, about how many were Ashkenazi?
Religious Jews have Minhagim, customs, in addition to Halakha, or religious law, and different interpretations of law	For religious Jews, what does Minhagim mean?
As Ashkenazi Jews moved away from Europe, mostly in the form of aliyah to Israel, or immigration to North America, and other English-speaking areas; and Europe and Latin America, the geographic isolation that gave rise to Ashkenazim has given way to mixing with other cultures, and with non-Ashkenazi Jews who, similarly, are no longer isolated in distinct geographic locales	Most of the Ashkenazi Jews moved away from Europe either immigrating to North America, or other English speaking areas but most to which place?
A 2006 study found Ashkenazi Jews to be a clear, homogeneous genetic subgroup	A 2006 study found Ashkenazi Jews to be a what?
While they make up about 2% of the U	What percentage of the US population is comprised of Ashkenazi Jews?
"Although the Jewish people in general were present across a wide geographical area as described, genetic research done by Gil Atzmon of the Longevity Genes Project at Albert Einstein College of Medicine suggests ""that Ashkenazim branched off from other Jews around the time of the destruction of the First Temple, 2,500 years ago"	Researcher Gil Atzmon suggests that Ashkenazim branched off from other Jews around the time of what?
showed that both Ashkenazi and Sephardic Jewish populations share the same overall paternal Near Eastern ancestries	A 2001 study by Nebel et al. showed that which two populations share the same overall paternal Near Eastern ancestries?
In the late Middle Ages the center of gravity of the Ashkenazi population, and its traditional cultural life, shifted steadily eastward, out of the German lands into Poland and Lithuania 	In the late Middle Ages, the Ashkenazi population shifted in which direction?
The name Ashkenazi derives from the biblical figure of Ashkenaz, the first son of Gomer, son of Khaphet, son of Noah, and a Japhetic patriarch in the Table of Nations 	The name of Ashkenazi derives from which biblical figure?
The study found that contemporary Jews have a close genetic relationship with people from the Levant	Recent studies have found that contemporary Jews have a close genetic relationship to the people of what area?
The history of Jews in Greece goes back to at least the Archaic Era of Greece, when the classical culture of Greece was undergoing a process of formalization after the Greek Dark Age	The history of Jews in Greece goes back to which era?
"In an essay on Sephardi Jewry, Daniel Elazar at the Jerusalem Center for Public Affairs summarized the demographic history of Ashkenazi Jews in the last thousand years, noting that at the end of the 11th century, 97% of world Jewry was Sephardic and 3% Ashkenazi; by the end of XVI century, the: 'Treaty on the redemption of captives', by Gracian of the God's Mother, Mercy Priest, who was imprisoned by Turks, cites a Tunisian Hebrew, made captive when arriving to Gaeta, who aided others with money, named: 'Simon Escanasi', in the mid-17th century, ""Sephardim still outnumbered Ashkenazim three to two"", but by the end of the 18th century, ""Ashkenazim outnumbered Sephardim three to two, the result of improved living conditions in Christian Europe versus the Ottoman Muslim world"	According to Daniel Elazar at the Jerusalem Center for Public Affairs, at the end of the 11th century, what percentage of the world's Jewry was Sephardic?
In Israel, the term Ashkenazi is now used in a manner unrelated to its original meaning, often applied to all Jews who settled in Europe and sometimes including those whose ethnic background is actually Sephardic	In Israel, the term Ashkenazi is now used in what manner?
By tradition, a Sephardic or Mizrahi woman who marries into an Orthodox or Haredi Ashkenazi Jewish family raises her children to be Ashkenazi Jews; conversely an Ashkenazi woman who marries a Sephardi or Mizrahi man is expected to take on Sephardic practice and the children inherit a Sephardic identity, though in practice many families compromise	By tradition, when a Sephardic or Mizrahi woman marries into an Orthodox or Haredi Ashkenazi Jewish family she raises her children to be which type of Jew?
But after emancipation, a sense of a unified French Jewry emerged, especially when France was wracked by the Dreyfus affair in the 1890s	When did the Dreyfus affair occur?
The term Ashkenazi also refers to the nusach Ashkenaz used by Ashkenazi Jews in their Siddur 	What is the Siddur?
Efforts to identify the origins of Ashkenazi Jews through DNA analysis began in the 1990s	When did efforts begin to try and identify the origins of Ashkenazi Jews through DNA analysis?
", based on what was at that time high-resolution analysis of haplogroup K , suggested that about 40% of the current Ashkenazi population is descended matrilineally from just four women, or ""founder lineages"", that were ""likely from a Hebrew/Levantine mtDNA pool"" originating in the Middle East in the 1st and 2nd centuries CE"	"A 2006 study by Behar et al, suggested that what percentage of the current Ashkenazi population was descended from ""founder lineages""?"
Speculation that the Ashkenazi arose from Khazar stock surfaced in the later 19th century and has met with mixed fortunes in the scholarly literature	When did the idea that the Ashkenazi may have come from Khazar stock come about?
Sporadic epigraphic evidence in grave site excavations, particularly in Brigetio , Aquincum , Intercisa , Triccinae , Savaria , Sopianae , and Osijek in Croatia, attest to the presence of Jews after the 2nd and 3rd centuries where Roman garrisons were established, There was a sufficient number of Jews in Pannonia to form communities and build a synagogue	Grave site excavations near where Roman garrisons were established attest to the presence of Jews after what centuries?
With the onset of the Crusades in 1095, and the expulsions from England , France , and parts of Germany , Jewish migration pushed eastward into Poland , Lithuania , and Russia 	What year marked the onset of the Crusades?
In the Midrash compilation, Genesis Rabbah, Rabbi Berechiah mentions Ashkenaz, Riphath, and Togarmah as German tribes or as German lands	What is the name of the Midrash compilation?
In the generations after emigration from the west, Jewish communities in places like Poland, Russia, and Belarus enjoyed a comparatively stable socio-political environment	After emigration from the west, did Jewish communities in places like Poland have a stable or unstable sociopolitical environment?
Religious Ashkenazi Jews living in Israel are obliged to follow the authority of the chief Ashkenazi rabbi in halakhic matters	Religious Ashkenazi Jews living in Israel follow the authority of whom in certain matters?
"In North American cities, social trends such as the chavurah movement, and the emergence of ""post-denominational Judaism"" often bring together younger Jews of diverse ethnic backgrounds"	What two things were mentioned as contributing to bringing younger Jews together in North American cities?
However, most people with this surname hail from within Sephardic communities, particularly from the Syrian Jewish community	Most people with the surname Ashkenazi, hail from which particular community?
found that the Y-chromosome of Ashkenazi and Sephardic Jews contained mutations that are also common among Middle Eastern peoples, but uncommon in the general European population	It was found that the Y-chromosome of Ashkenazi and Sephardic Jews contained mutations that are also common with what other people?
""" The 2013 study estimated that 80 percent of Ashkenazi maternal ancestry comes from women indigenous to Europe, and only 8 percent from the Near East, while the origin of the remainder is undetermined"	A 2013 study estimates that what percentage of Ashkenazi maternal ancestry comes from women indigenous to Europe?
"stated ""Two major groups were identified by principal component, phylogenetic, and identity by descent analysis: Middle Eastern Jews and European/Syrian Jews"	In a 2010 study, which two groups were identified by principal component, phylogenetic, and identity by descent analysis?
A 2013 trans-genome study carried out by 30 geneticists, from 13 universities and academies, from 9 countries, assembling the largest data set available to date, for assessment of Ashkenazi Jewish genetic origins found no evidence of Khazar origin among Ashkenazi Jews	How many geneticists carried out the 2013 trans-genome study?
The most well supported theory is the one that details a Jewish migration through what is now Italy and other parts of southern Europe	The most well supported theory on the origins of the Ashkenazim is one that details a Jewish migration through which modern day country?
Historical records show evidence of Jewish communities north of the Alps and Pyrenees as early as the 8th and 9th century	Jewish communities were seen north of the Alps and Pyrenees as early as which centuries?
In the first half of the 11th century, Hai Gaon refers to questions that had been addressed to him from Ashkenaz, by which he undoubtedly means Germany	When did Hai Gaon refer to questions that had been addressed to him from Ashkenaz?
Although France expelled its original Jewish population in the Middle Ages, by the time of the French Revolution, there were two distinct Jewish populations	When did France expel its original Jewish population?
All studies nevertheless agree that genetic overlap with the Fertile Crescent exists in both lineages, albeit at differing rates	All studies agree that genetic overlap with what location exists in both lineages?
""" Thus, in 2002, in line with this model of origin, David Goldstein, now of Duke University, reported that unlike male Ashkenazi lineages, the female lineages in Ashkenazi Jewish communities ""did not seem to be Middle Eastern"", and that each community had its own genetic pattern and even that ""in some cases the mitochondrial DNA was closely related to that of the host community"	What year did David Goldstein report that unlike male Ashkenazi lineages, the female lineages in Ashkenazi Jewish communities did not seem to be Middle Eastern?
used over five thousand autosomal SNPs to demonstrate European genetic substructure	In a 2006 study, how many autosomal SNPs were used?
In 1897 John Abel of Johns Hopkins University identified the active principle as epinephrine, which he isolated in an impure state as the sulfate salt	Who identified the active substance?
Amphetamine was developed by Smith, Kline and French as a nasal decongestant under the trade name Benzedrine Inhaler	Who developed Amphetamine?
A series of experiments performed from the late 1800s to the early 1900s revealed that diabetes is caused by the absence of a substance normally produced by the pancreas	What is diabetes caused from?
Phenobarbital was among the most widely used drugs for the treatment of epilepsy through the 1970s, and as of 2014, remains on the World Health Organizations list of essential medications	What is phenobarbital used for?
In 1911 arsphenamine, the first synthetic anti-infective drug, was developed by Paul Ehrlich and chemist Alfred Bertheim of the Institute of Experimental Therapy in Berlin	Who developed Arsphenamine?
The first of these were local apothecaries that expanded from their traditional role distributing botanical drugs such as morphine and quinine to wholesale manufacture in the mid 1800s	When was Morphine and Quinine first available?
Ehrlich’s approach of systematically varying the chemical structure of synthetic compounds and measuring the effects of these changes on biological activity was pursued broadly by industrial scientists, including Bayer scientists Josef Klarer, Fritz Mietzsch, and Gerhard Domagk	Who received the Nobel Prize in Medicine in 1939?
In 1885 Louis Pasteur and Pierre Paul Émile Roux created the first rabies vaccine	Who created the first rabies vaccine?
"In 1937 over 100 people died after ingesting ""Elixir Sulfanilamide"" manufactured by S"	What drug killed 100 people in 1937?
Streptomycin, discovered during a Merck-funded research program in Selman Waksman's laboratory at Rutgers in 1943, became the first effective treatment for tuberculosis	When was the first effective treatment for Tuberculosis discovered?
Vaccine development continued to accelerate, with the most notable achievement of the period being Jonas Salk's 1954 development of the polio vaccine under the funding of the non-profit National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis	When was the Polio vaccine created?
On 2 July 2012, GlaxoSmithKline pleaded guilty to criminal charges and agreed to a $3 billion settlement of the largest health-care fraud case in the U	How much was the settlement GlaxoSmithKline agree to?
In the US, starting in 2013, under the Physician Financial Transparency Reports , the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services has to collect information from applicable manufacturers and group purchasing organizations in order to report information about their financial relationships with physicians and hospitals	What is the Physician Financial Transparency Report part of?
The study further examined mortality rates for eight common diseases for which antibiotics offered effective therapy , and found a 56% decline over the same period	What disease had the biggest decline of deaths?
HIV was and is an epidemic in South Africa, and ARVs at the time cost between 10,000 and 15,000 USD per patient per year	How much did treatment for each patient in Africa cost?
This was followed in 1906 by the Pure Food and Drugs Act, which forbade the interstate distribution of adulterated or misbranded foods and drugs	What Act forbade misbranded drugs?
Moreover, under the TRIPS agreement of the World Trade Organization, countries must allow pharmaceutical products to be patented	Who adopted the Doha Declaration?
Pharmaceutical fraud involves deceptions which bring financial gain to a pharmaceutical company	What is pharmaceutical fraud?
A 2009 Cochrane review concluded that thiazide antihypertensive drugs reduce the risk of death (RR 0	What drugs reduce the risk of death and other events in people with high blood pressure?
A 2012 report by the President's Council of Advisors on Science and Technology made several key recommendations to reduce regulatory burdens to new drug development, including 1) expanding the FDA's use of accelerated approval processes, 2) creating an expedited approval pathway for drugs intended for use in narrowly defined populations, and 3) undertaking pilot projects designed to evaluate the feasibility of a new, adaptive drug approval process	Who put out a report in 2012?
In 1952 researchers at Ciba discovered the first orally available vasodilator, hydralazine	Who discovered Hydralazine?
, a push for revisions of the FD&C Act emerged from Congressional hearings led by Senator Estes Kefauver of Tennessee in 1959	Who led the congressional hearings?
prevented an estimated 52 million cases of the disease, 17,400 cases of mental retardation, and 5,200 deaths	What did the first measles prevent in it's first 20 years?
The thalidomide tragedy resurrected Kefauver's bill to enhance drug regulation that had stalled in Congress, and the Kefauver-Harris Amendment became law on 10 October 1962	When did the Kefauver-Harris Amendment become a law?
"Over 20,000 Americans received thalidomide in this ""study,"" including 624 pregnant patients, and about 17 known newborns suffered the effects of the drug"	How many Americans were given the drug Kevadon?
Prior to the second world war, birth control was prohibited in many countries, and in the United States even the discussion of contraceptive methods sometimes led to prosecution under Comstock laws	What law prohibited birth control?
Endo was awarded the 2006 Japan Prize, and the Lasker-DeBakey Clinical Medical Research Award in 2008	Who received the Laser-Debakey Clinical Medical Research Aware?
Drug discovery is the process by which potential drugs are discovered or designed	What is a drug discovery?
Since 2001, the Center for Drug Evaluation and Research has averaged 22	Who is responsible for approval or rejection of new drugs?
Some approved drugs, such as those based on re-formulation of an existing active ingredient are much less expensive to develop	What drugs are the least expensive to develop?
Mevastatin was never marketed, because of its adverse effects of tumors, muscle deterioration, and sometimes death in laboratory dogs	Why was Mevastatin never marketed?
In the Bextra case, the government also charged Pfizer with illegally marketing another antipsychotic, Geodon; Pfizer settled that part of the claim for $301 million, without admitting any wrongdoing	How much did Pfizer settle the illegal marketing suit for?
The article noted that major healthcare organizations such as National Center for Advancing Translational Sciences of the National Institutes of Health, the President’s Council of Advisors on Science and Technology, the World Economic Forum, the Gates Foundation, the Wellcome Trust, and the Food and Drug Administration had encouraged greater interactions between physicians and industry in order to bring greater benefits to patients	Who were some of the companies that encouraged the interactions between doctors and the pharmaceutical industry?
An investigation by ProPublica found that at least 21 doctors have been paid more than $500,000 for speeches and consulting by drugs manufacturers since 2009, with half of the top earners working in psychiatry, and about $2 billion in total paid to doctors for such services	Who conduced an investigation on doctors?
Often, collaborative agreements between research organizations and large pharmaceutical companies are formed to explore the potential of new drug substances	Why are collaborative agreements important?
The British National Formulary is the core guide for pharmacists and clinicians	Who is the core guide?
For example, diseases involving fewer than 200,000 patients in the United States, or larger populations in certain circumstances are subject to the Orphan Drug Act	What is subject to the Orphan Drug Act?
Ben Goldacre has argued that regulators – such as the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency in the UK, or the Food and Drug Administration in the United States – advance the interests of the drug companies rather than the interests of the public due to revolving door exchange of employees between the regulator and the companies and friendships develop between regulator and company employees	Who argued against regulators?
In England and Wales NICE decides whether and in what circumstances drugs and technologies will be made available by the NHS, whilst similar arrangements exist with the Scottish Medicines Consortium in Scotland, and the Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee in Australia	NICE decides the availability of drugs in which two countries?
6 billion in sales, with the anti-inflammatory drug Humira being the best-selling drug worldwide at $10	What was the name of the top-selling anti-inflammatory drug in 2013?
Depending on a number of considerations, a company may apply for and be granted a patent for the drug, or the process of producing the drug, granting exclusivity rights typically for about 20 years	How long do drug exclusivity rights usually last?
In the United States, new pharmaceutical products must be approved by the Food and Drug Administration as being both safe and effective	The safety and efficacy of new drugs must be approved by what organization in the US?
Pharmaceutical companies generally employ sales people to market directly and personally to physicians and other healthcare providers	"""Drug reps"" are usually hired by what type of firms?"
There have been accusations and findings of influence on doctors and other health professionals through drug reps, including the constant provision of marketing 'gifts' and biased information to health professionals; highly prevalent advertising in journals and conferences; funding independent healthcare organizations and health promotion campaigns; lobbying physicians and politicians ; sponsorship of medical schools or nurse training; sponsorship of continuing educational events, with influence on the curriculum; and hiring physicians as paid consultants on medical advisory boards	Drug reps have been accused of giving what to health professionals?
The rivalries between the Arab tribes had caused unrest in the provinces outside Syria, most notably in the Second Muslim Civil War of 680–692 CE and the Berber Revolt of 740–743 CE	In what year CE did the Second Muslim Civil War end?
Ali was assassinated in 661 by a Kharijite partisan	In what year was Ali killed?
Muhammad had stated explicitly during his lifetime that abrahamic religious groups , should be allowed to practice their own religion, provided that they paid the jizya taxation	What form of tax were Christians required to pay?
Al-Khilāfat al-ʾumawiyya) was the second of the four major Islamic caliphates established after the death of Muhammad	How many major Islamic caliphates existed after Muhammad's death?
] consider Caliph Muawiyah to have been the second ruler of the Umayyad dynasty, even though he was the first to assert the Umayyads' right to rule on a dynastic principle	When did Muawiyah become caliph?
Following the death of Husayn, Ibn al-Zubayr, although remaining in Mecca, was associated with two opposition movements, one centered in Medina and the other around Kharijites in Basra and Arabia	What opposition movement was based in Arabia and Basra?
According to tradition, the Umayyad family and Muhammad both descended from a common ancestor, Abd Manaf ibn Qusai, and they originally came from the city of Mecca	What is another term for the Umayyads?
Following this battle, Ali fought a battle against Muawiyah, known as the Battle of Siffin	Where did Muawiyah fight Ali?
Following the Roman–Persian Wars and the Byzantine–Sassanid Wars, deep rooted differences between Iraq, formally under the Persian Sassanid Empire, and Syria, formally under the Byzantine Empire, also existed	Who controlled Iraq before the Arabs?
The battle saw three top leaders of the Umayyad clan killed by Hashimites in a three-on-three melee	How many top leaders of the Umayyads were killed in the Battle of Badr?
These religious communities were not forced to convert to Islam, but were subject to a tax which was not imposed upon Muslims	What tax did non-Muslims pay in the Umayyad period?
After the assassination of Uthman in 656, Ali, a member of the Quraysh tribe and the cousin and son-in-law of Muhammad, was elected as the caliph	When did Uthman die?
In 656, Muhammad ibn Abi Bakr, the son of Abu Bakr, the adopted son of Ali ibn Abi Talib, and the great grandfather of Ja'far al-Sadiq, showed some Egyptians the house of Uthman ibn al-Affan	What group murdered Uthman ibn al-Affan?
In 680 Ibn al-Zubayr fled Medina for Mecca	Where did Ibn al-Zubayr flee to in 680?
In the year 712, Muhammad bin Qasim, an Umayyad general, sailed from the Persian Gulf into Sindh in Pakistan and conquered both the Sindh and the Punjab regions along the Indus river	When did Muhammad bin Wasim sail to Pakistan?
The second major event of the early reign of Abd al-Malik was the construction of the Dome of the Rock in Jerusalem	Where was the Dome of the Rock built?
"Muawiyah also encouraged peaceful coexistence with the Christian communities of Syria, granting his reign with ""peace and prosperity for Christians and Arabs alike"", and one of his closest advisers was Sarjun, the father of John of Damascus"	Who was the son of Sarjun?
Yazid's son Muawiya II initially succeeded him but seems to have never been recognized as caliph outside of Syria	Who was the son of Yazid?
Marwan was succeeded by his son, Abd al-Malik , who reconsolidated Umayyad control of the caliphate	Who was the father of Abd al-Malik?
Each province had a governor appointed by the khalifah	Who appointed the governors in the Umayyad empire?
Hisham suffered still worse defeats in the east, where his armies attempted to subdue both Tokharistan, with its center at Balkh, and Transoxiana, with its center at Samarkand	What was the main city of Tokharistan?
The Hashimiyya movement , led by the Abbasid family, overthrew the Umayyad caliphate	What group were the Hashimiyya a sect of?
From the caliphate's north-western African bases, a series of raids on coastal areas of the Visigothic Kingdom paved the way to the permanent occupation of most of Iberia by the Umayyads , and on into south-eastern Gaul 	When did the Umayyads begin to occupy Iberia?
The final son of Abd al-Malik to become caliph was Hisham , whose long and eventful reign was above all marked by the curtailment of military expansion	Who was the father of Hisham?
Muawiyah married Maysum the daughter of the chief of the Kalb tribe, that was a large Jacobite Christian Arab tribe in Syria	What was the name of Muawiyah's wife?
Only Umayyad ruler , Umar ibn Abd al-Aziz, is unanimously praised by Sunni sources for his devout piety and justice	What Umayyad ruler is regarded as especially just and pious by Sunni scholars?
Around 746, Abu Muslim assumed leadership of the Hashimiyya in Khurasan	Who became leader of the Khurasan Hashimiyya in approximately 746?
Iran was Sunni at the time	In the later Abbasid era, what branch of Islam did Iran adhere to?
Marwan II abandoned the old division and introduced Kurdus , a small compact body	What is the meaning of the term Kurdus in English?
Mu'awiyah introduced postal service, Abd al-Malik extended it throughout his empire, and Walid made full use of it	Who first brought a postal service into Umayyad lands?
The defeat of the Byzantine Emperor Heraclius at the Battle of Yarmouk opened the way for the Muslim expansion into Jerusalem and Syria	What nation lost the Battle of Yarmouk?
Non-Muslim groups in the Umayyad Caliphate, which included Christians, Jews, Zoroastrians, and pagan Berbers, were called dhimmis	What were non-Muslim groups under the Umayyads called?
Despite some notable exceptions, the Umayyads tended to favor the rights of the old Arab families, and in particular their own, over those of newly converted Muslims 	What is another name for people who recently converted to Islam?
St John of Damascus was also a high administrator in the Umayyad administration	What Christian saint was also an Umayyad administrator?
In this respect it is notable that the Umayyad caliphs referred to themselves not as khalifat rasul Allah , but rather as khalifat Allah 	What Arabic term did the Umayyad caliphs use to refer to themselves?
"Asphalt/bitumen also occurs in unconsolidated sandstones known as ""oil sands"" in Alberta, Canada, and the similar ""tar sands"" in Utah, US"	What is another term for asphalt?
The first use of asphalt/bitumen in the New World was by indigenous peoples	What group initially made use of asphalt?
When maintenance is performed on asphalt pavements, such as milling to remove a worn or damaged surface, the removed material can be returned to a facility for processing into new pavement mixtures	What is used asphalt turned back into?
In Alberta, five bitumen upgraders produce synthetic crude oil and a variety of other products: The Suncor Energy upgrader near Fort McMurray, Alberta produces synthetic crude oil plus diesel fuel; the Syncrude Canada, Canadian Natural Resources, and Nexen upgraders near Fort McMurray produce synthetic crude oil; and the Shell Scotford Upgrader near Edmonton produces synthetic crude oil plus an intermediate feedstock for the nearby Shell Oil Refinery	How many asphalt upgraders operate in Alberta?
Asphalt/bitumen is typically stored and transported at temperatures around 150 °C 	About what temperature is asphalt shipped?
The Albanian bitumen extraction has a long history and was practiced in an organized way by the Romans	What ancient group used bitumen extraction?
"The word asphalt is derived from the late Middle English, in turn from French asphalte, based on Late Latin asphalton, asphaltum, which is the latinisation of the Greek ἄσφαλτος , a word meaning ""asphalt/bitumen/pitch"", which perhaps derives from ἀ-, ""without"" and σφάλλω , ""make fall"""	What is the last origination of the word asphalt?
The terms asphalt and bitumen are often used interchangeably to mean both natural and manufactured forms of the substance	How are the words bitumen and asphalt frequently used?
The great majority of asphalt used commercially is obtained from petroleum	From where does most asphalt come?
The world's largest deposit of natural bitumen, known as the Athabasca oil sands is located in the McMurray Formation of Northern Alberta	What is the name of the world's greatest deposit of bitumen?
Bitumen was used in early photographic technology	In what early technology was bitumen used?
The first British patent for the use of asphalt/bitumen was 'Cassell's patent asphalte or bitumen' in 1834	When was the first British patent for the use of bitumen?
Roads in the US have been paved with materials that include asphalt/bitumen since at least 1870, when a street in front of the Newark, NJ City Hall was paved	Since what date has asphalt been used for road paving in the US?
In 1838, there was a flurry of entrepreneurial activity involving asphalt/bitumen, which had uses beyond paving	In what year was asphalt used for uses aside from road paving?
In 1915, Sidney Ells of the Federal Mines Branch experimented with separation techniques and used the bitumen to pave 600 feet of road in Edmonton, Alberta	Who experimented with bitumen extraction techniques to make shipping easier?
Canadian bitumen does not differ substantially from oils such as Venezuelan extra-heavy and Mexican heavy oil in chemical composition, and the real difficulty is moving the extremely viscous bitumen through oil pipelines to the refinery	What property of bitumen makes it difficult to move through pipelines?
"These involve mixing with petroleum solvents to form ""cutbacks"" with reduced melting point, or mixtures with water to turn the asphalt/bitumen into an emulsion"	What does mixing bitumen with water create?
"Naturally occurring crude asphalt/bitumen impregnated in sedimentary rock is the prime feed stock for petroleum production from ""Oil sands"", currently under development in Alberta, Canada"	Where is naturally occurring bitumen in rock being developed as a feed stock for petroleum production?
Roofing shingles account for most of the remaining asphalt/bitumen consumption	Besides fuels and paving, what accounts for most of the other use of bitumen?
"The expression ""bitumen"" originated in the Sanskrit, where we find the words jatu, meaning ""pitch,"" and jatu-krit, meaning ""pitch creating"", ""pitch producing"" "	What language originated the word bitumen?
"Asphalt/bitumen can sometimes be confused with ""coal tar"", which is a visually similar black, thermoplastic material produced by the destructive distillation of coal"	To what similar substance can asphalt be confused?
One hundred years after the fall of Constantinople in 1453, Pierre Belon described in his work Observations in 1553 that pissasphalto, a mixture of pitch and bitumen, was used in Dubrovnik for tarring of ships from where it was exported to a market place in Venice where it could be bought by anyone	Who described the use of bitumen and pitch to tar ships?
In 1838, Claridge obtained patents in Scotland on 27 March, and Ireland on 23 April, and in 1851 extensions were sought for all three patents, by the trustees of a company previously formed by Claridge	In what year did Claridge acquire patents for the use of asphalt?
Canada has the world's largest deposit of natural bitumen in the Athabasca oil sands and Canadian First Nations along the Athabasca River had long used it to waterproof their canoes	What country has the largest deposits of bitumen?
Mastic asphalt is a type of asphalt which differs from dense graded asphalt in that it has a higher asphalt/bitumen content, usually around 7–10% of the whole aggregate mix, as opposed to rolled asphalt concrete, which has only around 5% added asphalt/bitumen	What is the percentage of binder in mastic asphalt?
Because of the difficulty of moving crude bitumen through pipelines, non-upgraded bitumen is usually diluted with natural-gas condensate in a form called dilbit or with synthetic crude oil, called synbit	What is done to crude bitumen to promote its movement through pipelines?
Asphalt/bitumen is similar to the organic matter in carbonaceous meteorites	To what is the organic matter in asphalt similar?
Selenizza is mainly used as an additive in the road construction sector	What component is added to bitumen to improve it?
In British English, the word 'asphalt' is used to refer to a mixture of mineral aggregate and asphalt/bitumen 	To what type of aggregate did asphalt used to refer?
Bitumen was the nemesis of many artists during the 19th century	What pigment did 19th century artists use that was deemed unfavorably?
In 1914, Claridge's Company entered into a joint venture to produce tar-bound macadam, with materials manufactured through a subsidiary company called Clarmac Roads Ltd	Which of Claridge's two tar macadams was the more successful?
The largest use of asphalt/bitumen is for making asphalt concrete for road surfaces and accounts for approximately 85% of the asphalt consumed in the United States	What is the biggest use of asphalt?
Synthetic crude oil, also known as syncrude, is the output from a bitumen upgrader facility used in connection with oil sand production in Canada	What is synthetic crude oil usually called?
About 40,000,000 tons were produced in 1984	How many tons of bitumen ere produced in 1984?
Selenizza is a naturally occurring solid hydrocarbon bitumen found in the native asphalt deposit of Selenice, in Albania, the only European asphalt mine still in use	To what location is Selenizza bitumen native?
People can be exposed to asphalt in the workplace by breathing in fumes or skin absorption	By what means can humans be exposed to bitumen?
Victoria married her first cousin, Prince Albert of Saxe-Coburg and Gotha, in 1840	Who did Victoria marry?
"Her mother was extremely protective, and Victoria was raised largely isolated from other children under the so-called ""Kensington System"", an elaborate set of rules and protocols devised by the Duchess and her ambitious and domineering comptroller, Sir John Conroy, who was rumoured to be the Duchess's lover"	Who was extremely protective over Victoria?
In 1853, Victoria gave birth to her eighth child, Leopold, with the aid of the new anaesthetic, chloroform	Who was Victoria's eighth child?
In March 1861, Victoria's mother died, with Victoria at her side	During which year did Victoria's mother die?
On 2 March 1882, Roderick Maclean, a disgruntled poet apparently offended by Victoria's refusal to accept one of his poems, shot at the Queen as her carriage left Windsor railway station	Who shot at the queen?
Gladstone returned to power after the 1892 general election; he was 82 years old	What year did Gladstone return to power?
On 25 January, Edward VII, the Kaiser and Prince Arthur, Duke of Connaught, helped lift her body into the coffin	Which two people helped lift Victoria's body into the coffin?
"Victoria wrote to her uncle Leopold, whom Victoria considered her ""best and kindest adviser"", to thank him ""for the prospect of great happiness you have contributed to give me, in the person of dear Albert"	Who was considered Victoria's best and kindest advisor?
The Queen commissioned a Tory, Sir Robert Peel, to form a new ministry	What did the Queen commission Sir Robert Peel to do?
Internationally, Victoria took a keen interest in the improvement of relations between France and Britain	Which two countries was Victoria trying to improve relations between?
On 14 January 1858, an Italian refugee from Britain called Orsini attempted to assassinate Napoleon III with a bomb made in England	Where was Orsini from?
Palmerston died in 1865, and after a brief ministry led by Russell, Derby returned to power	Who died in 1865?
Victoria marked the fiftieth anniversary of her accession on 20 June with a banquet to which 50 kings and princes were invited	How many kings and princes were invited to the Golden Jubilee?
Victoria visited mainland Europe regularly for holidays	Who was the first reigning monarch from Britain to set foot in Spain?
Victoria was physically unprepossessing—she was stout, dowdy and no more than five feet tall—but she succeeded in projecting a grand image	How tall was Queen Victoria?
In 1830, the Duchess of Kent and Conroy took Victoria across the centre of England to visit the Malvern Hills, stopping at towns and great country houses along the way	In 1830, what part of England did Victoria travel to with Dutchess of Kent and Conroy?
At the time of her accession, the government was led by the Whig prime minister Lord Melbourne, who at once became a powerful influence on the politically inexperienced Queen, who relied on him for advice	Who was in charge of the Governemnt at the time of Victorias ascession?
In 1845, Ireland was hit by a potato blight	What year was the potato blight in Ireland?
Victoria's self-imposed isolation from the public diminished the popularity of the monarchy, and encouraged the growth of the republican movement	When Victoria isolated herself from the public, what movement began to grow?
After the Indian Rebellion of 1857, the British East India Company, which had ruled much of India, was dissolved, and Britain's possessions and protectorates on the Indian subcontinent were formally incorporated into the British Empire	What year was the Indian Rebellion?
On 17 March 1883, she fell down some stairs at Windsor, which left her lame until July; she never fully recovered and was plagued with rheumatism thereafter	What year did Victoria fall down the stairs at Windsor?
Victoria's youngest son, Leopold, was affected by the blood-clotting disease haemophilia B and two of her five daughters, Alice and Beatrice, were carriers	What blood clotting disease did Victorias youngest son have?
Both the Duke of Kent and King George III died in 1820, and Victoria was raised under close supervision by her German-born mother Princess Victoria of Saxe-Coburg-Saalfeld	What year did Victorias Father die?
At birth, Victoria was fifth in the line of succession after her father and his three older brothers: the Prince Regent, the Duke of York, and the Duke of Clarence 	What was Victorias place in line of succession to the throne when she was born?
Victoria turned 18 on 24 May 1837, and a regency was avoided	On what date did Victoria turn 18?
Though queen, as an unmarried young woman Victoria was required by social convention to live with her mother, despite their differences over the Kensington System and her mother's continued reliance on Conroy	What was the marital status of Victoria when she became the queen?
On 29 May 1842, Victoria was riding in a carriage along The Mall, London, when John Francis aimed a pistol at her but the gun did not fire; he escaped	What was the name of the man that tried to shoot Queen Victoria?
Russell's ministry, though Whig, was not favoured by the Queen	What political party was Russells ministry?
Eleven days after Orsini's assassination attempt in France, Victoria's eldest daughter married Prince Frederick William of Prussia in London	Who did Victorias eldest daughter marry?
Victoria's father was Prince Edward, Duke of Kent and Strathearn, the fourth son of the reigning King of the United Kingdom, George III	Who was the reigning King of the United Kingdom until 1817?
By 1836, the Duchess's brother, Leopold, who had been King of the Belgians since 1831, hoped to marry his niece to his nephew, Prince Albert of Saxe-Coburg and Gotha	The Dutchesses brother Leopold was the King of what country?
At the start of her reign Victoria was popular, but her reputation suffered in an 1839 court intrigue when one of her mother's ladies-in-waiting, Lady Flora Hastings, developed an abdominal growth that was widely rumoured to be an out-of-wedlock pregnancy by Sir John Conroy	What year did Victorias reputation begin to suffer?
In 1870, republican sentiment in Britain, fed by the Queen's seclusion, was boosted after the establishment of the Third French Republic	What year was the Third French Republic established?
During Victoria's first pregnancy in 1840, in the first few months of the marriage, 18-year-old Edward Oxford attempted to assassinate her while she was riding in a carriage with Prince Albert on her way to visit her mother	What year was Queen Victorias first pregnancy?
Between April 1877 and February 1878, she threatened five times to abdicate while pressuring Disraeli to act against Russia during the Russo-Turkish War, but her threats had no impact on the events or their conclusion with the Congress of Berlin	Who did Victoria try to convince Disraeli to act against during the Russo-Turkish war?
Napoleon III, since the Crimean War Britain's closest ally, visited London in April 1855, and from 17 to 28 August the same year Victoria and Albert returned the visit	who was britains closest ally since the Crimean war?
Through the 1860s, Victoria relied increasingly on a manservant from Scotland, John Brown	What was the name of the manservent that Victoria had in the 1860's?
Following a custom she maintained throughout her widowhood, Victoria spent the Christmas of 1900 at Osborne House on the Isle of Wight	Where did Victoria spend the Christmas of 1900?
In the 1874 general election, Disraeli was returned to power	In a general election of what year was Disraeli returned to power?
Through Victoria's reign, the gradual establishment of a modern constitutional monarchy in Britain continued	What kind of monarchy was formed under Queen Victoria?
Victoria was pleased when Gladstone resigned in 1885 after his budget was defeated	What year did Gladstone resign?
According to one of her biographers, Giles St Aubyn, Victoria wrote an average of 2,500 words a day during her adult life	How many words a day did Victoria write?
Relations between Grand Lodges are determined by the concept of Recognition	What concept determines relationships between Grand Lodges?
The fifteenth century also sees the first evidence of ceremonial regalia	When did ceremonial regalia first appear in the Masonic culture?
A dispute during the Lausanne Congress of Supreme Councils of 1875 prompted the Grand Orient de France to commission a report by a Protestant pastor which concluded that, as Freemasonry was not a religion, it should not require a religious belief	Why did the Grand Orient de France conclude that Freemasonry shouldn't require religious belief?
At the dawn of the Grand Lodge era, during the 1720s, James Anderson composed the first printed constitutions for Freemasons, the basis for most subsequent constitutions, which specifically excluded women from Freemasonry	When were the first constitutions for Freemasonry printed?
In contrast to Catholic allegations of rationalism and naturalism, Protestant objections are more likely to be based on allegations of mysticism, occultism, and even Satanism	What are some Protestant objections to Freemasonry?
In 1799, English Freemasonry almost came to a halt due to Parliamentary proclamation	What put English Freemasonry at risk?
In some countries anti-Masonry is often related to antisemitism and anti-Zionism	What are two things that anit-masonry usually associated with?
The bulk of Masonic ritual consists of degree ceremonies	What do most masonic rituals consist of?
English Freemasonry spread to France in the 1720s, first as lodges of expatriates and exiled Jacobites, and then as distinctively French lodges which still follow the ritual of the Moderns	When did English Freemasonry arrive in France?
In 1961, an umbrella organisation, Centre de Liaison et d'Information des Puissances maçonniques Signataires de l'Appel de Strasbourg was set up, which today provides a forum for most of these Grand Lodges and Grand Orients worldwide	Why was the Centre de Liasion et d'information des Puissances maconniques signataires de l'Appel de Strasbourg set up?
The denomination with the longest history of objection to Freemasonry is the Roman Catholic Church	Whao has always opposed Freemasonry?
In 1933, the Orthodox Church of Greece officially declared that being a Freemason constitutes an act of apostasy and thus, until he repents, the person involved with Freemasonry cannot partake of the Eucharist	What action is forbid by the Orthodox Greek Church to Freemasons?
In addition, most Grand Lodges require the candidate to declare a belief in a Supreme Being	What belief is required of a candidate by the Grand Lodge?
Exclusive Jurisdiction is a concept whereby only one Grand Lodge will be recognised in any geographical area	What is Exclusive Jurisdiction?
There is no clear mechanism by which these local trade organisations became today's Masonic Lodges, but the earliest rituals and passwords known, from operative lodges around the turn of the 17th–18th centuries, show continuity with the rituals developed in the later 18th century by accepted or speculative Masons, as those members who did not practice the physical craft came to be known	From what centuries are the earliest passwords and rituals of Freemasonry known?
Prince Hall Freemasonry exists because of the refusal of early American lodges to admit African-Americans	Why was Prince Hall Freemasonry formed?
Maria Deraismes was initiated into Freemasonry in 1882, then resigned to allow her lodge to rejoin their Grand Lodge	When was Maria Deraismes initiated into Freemasonry?
Many Islamic anti-Masonic arguments are closely tied to both antisemitism and Anti-Zionism, though other criticisms are made such as linking Freemasonry to al-Masih ad-Dajjal 	What do Islamic anti-masonics link Freemasonry to?
While the number is not accurately known, it is estimated that between 80,000 and 200,000 Freemasons were killed under the Nazi regime	How many Freemasons are believed to have been killed under Hitler's Nazi Regime?
Freemasonry consists of fraternal organisations that trace their origins to the local fraternities of stonemasons, which from the end of the fourteenth century regulated the qualifications of stonemasons and their interaction with authorities and clients	Where are the origins of Freemasonry?
The onus is on candidates to ask to join; while candidates may be encouraged to ask, they are never invited	How are Freemasons invited to join a lodge?
Freemasonry, as it exists in various forms all over the world, has a membership estimated by the United Grand Lodge of England at around six million worldwide	How large is the membership of Freemasonry?
Accordingly, Masons swear at each degree to keep the contents of that degree secret, and to support and protect their brethren unless they have broken the law	Are masons allowed to divulge the secrets of each degree?
The earliest known American lodges were in Pennsylvania	Where were the earliest known American Logdes located?
Masonic lodges existed in Iraq as early as 1917, when the first lodge under the United Grand Lodge of England was opened	How long have Masonic Lodges been in Iraq?
The ritual form on which the Grand Orient of France was based was abolished in England in the events leading to the formation of the United Grand Lodge of England in 1813	When was the United Grand Lodge of England Formed?
In 1983, the Church issued a new code of canon law	In what year was a new code to the Canon Law issued by the church?
In the UK, Masons working in the justice system, such as judges and police officers, were from 1999 to 2009 required to disclose their membership	Judges and police officers had to disclose their Freemason membership in what years in England?
The Masonic Lodge is the basic organisational unit of Freemasonry	What is the basic organizational unit of Freemasonry?
During the ceremony of initiation, the candidate is expected to swear to fulfil certain obligations as a Mason	When does a candidate swear to fullfil his obligations as a Mason?
Regularity is a concept based on adherence to Masonic Landmarks, the basic membership requirements, tenets and rituals of the craft	What concept is based on adherence to Masonic Landmarks, basic membership requirements, and tenets and rituals of the craft?
"All Freemasons begin their journey in the ""craft"" by being progressively initiated, passed and raised into the three degrees of Craft, or Blue Lodge Masonry"	All Freemasons are progressively initiated, passed, and raised in three degrees of what?
The first Grand Lodge, the Grand Lodge of London and Westminster ), was founded on 24 June 1717, when four existing London Lodges met for a joint dinner	The Grand Lodge of England is also know as what?
By the 1980s, such discrimination was a thing of the past, and today most U	When did North American Masonic lodges recognize members of the Prince Hall Lodge?
In general, Continental Freemasonry is sympathetic to Freemasonry amongst women, dating from the 1890s when French lodges assisted the emergent co-masonic movement by promoting enough of their members to the 33rd degree of the Ancient and Accepted Scottish Rite to allow them, in 1899, to form their own grand council, recognised by the other Continental Grand Councils of that Rite	When did the French try to create co-masonic lodges?
Since the founding of Freemasonry, many Bishops of the Church of England have been Freemasons, such as Archbishop Geoffrey Fisher	What English Archbishop was a member of the Freemasons?
In Italy, Freemasonry has become linked to a scandal concerning the Propaganda Due lodge (a	Freemasonry was linked to scandal in Italy due to what?
On 29 November 1947, the United Nations General Assembly recommended the adoption and implementation of the Partition Plan for Mandatory Palestine	When did the UN recommend the Partition Plan?
Israel , officially the State of Israel ; Arabic: دولة إِسْرَائِيل‎ Dawlat Isrāʼīl ), is a sovereign state in Western Asia	What is the official State of Israel?
The population of Israel, as defined by the Israel Central Bureau of Statistics, was estimated in 2016 to be 8,476,600 people	What was the population of Israel in 2016?
In its Basic Laws, Israel defines itself as a Jewish and democratic state	Israel defines itself as what?
"Jacob and his sons had lived in Canaan but were forced by famine to go into Egypt for four generations, lasting 430 years, until Moses, a great-great grandson of Jacob, led the Israelites back into Canaan during the ""Exodus"""	Who was Moses?
"The notion of the ""Land of Israel"", known in Hebrew as Eretz Yisrael, has been important and sacred to the Jewish people since Biblical times"	"What is the ""Land of Israel"" known as in Hebrew?"
The first record of the name Israel occurs in the Merneptah stele, erected for Egyptian Pharaoh Merneptah c	When does the first record of the name Israel occurs?
Around 930 BCE, the kingdom split into a southern Kingdom of Judah and a northern Kingdom of Israel	When did the kingdom split?
In 586 BCE King Nebuchadnezzar II of Babylon conquered Judah	Who conquered Judah?
The conflict erupted in 167 BCE with the Maccabean Revolt, which succeeded in establishing an independent Hasmonean Kingdom in Judah, which later expanded over much of modern Israel, as the Seleucids gradually lost control in the region	When did the conflict between Judeans and Greeks erupt?
Jewish presence in the region significantly dwindled after the failure of the Bar Kokhba revolt against the Roman Empire in 132 CE	When did the Jewish presence dwindle in the region?
During the siege of Jerusalem by the First Crusade in 1099, the Jewish inhabitants of the city fought side by side with the Fatimid garrison and the Muslim population who tried in vain to defend the city against the Crusaders	Who did the Jewish inhabitants fight side by side with?
"In 1165 Maimonides visited Jerusalem and prayed on the Temple Mount, in the ""great, holy house"""	When did Maimonides visit Jerusalem?
In 1211, the Jewish community in the country was strengthened by the arrival of a group headed by over 300 rabbis from France and England, among them Rabbi Samson ben Abraham of Sens	When was the Jewish community strengthened by rabbis?
In 1260, control passed to the Mamluk sultans of Egypt	When was control passed to the Mamluk sultans of Egypt?
"Since the existence of the earliest Jewish diaspora, many Jews have aspired to return to ""Zion"" and the ""Land of Israel"", though the amount of effort that should be spent towards such an aim was a matter of dispute"	Many Jews have aspired to return to where?
The first wave of modern Jewish migration to Ottoman-ruled Palestine, known as the First Aliyah, began in 1881, as Jews fled pogroms in Eastern Europe	What was the first wave of modern Jewish migration to Ottoman-ruled Palestine known as?
The Second Aliyah , began after the Kishinev pogrom; some 40,000 Jews settled in Palestine, although nearly half of them left eventually	When did the Second Aliyah begin?
The Jewish Legion, a group primarily of Zionist volunteers, assisted, in 1918, in the British conquest of Palestine	What is the Jewish Legion?
The Third and Fourth Aliyahs brought an additional 100,000 Jews to Palestine	How many Jews did the Third and Fourth Aliyahs bring to Palestine?
After World War II, Britain found itself in intense conflict with the Jewish community over Jewish immigration limits, as well as continued conflict with the Arab community over limit levels	What country experienced conflict with the Jewish community after World War II?
"On 15 May 1947, the General Assembly of the newly formed United Nations resolved that a committee, United Nations Special Committee on Palestine , be created ""to prepare for consideration at the next regular session of the Assembly a report on the question of Palestine"""	What is the UNSCOP?
The following day, the armies of four Arab countries—Egypt, Syria, Transjordan and Iraq—entered what had been British Mandatory Palestine, launching the 1948 Arab–Israeli War; Contingents from Yemen, Morocco, Saudi Arabia and Sudan joined the war	What four Arab countries entered British Mandatory Palestine?
Immigration to Israel during the late 1940s and early 1950s was aided by the Israeli Immigration Department and the non-government sponsored Mossad LeAliyah Bet 	Who aided the immigration to Israel?
Consequently, the population of Israel rose from 800,000 to two million between 1948 and 1958	The population of Israel rose from 800,000 to what between 1948 and 1958?
Some new immigrants arrived as refugees with no possessions and were housed in temporary camps known as ma'abarot; by 1952, over 200,000 immigrants were living in these tent cities	What were temporary camps known as?
In 1950 Egypt closed the Suez Canal to Israeli shipping and tensions mounted as armed clashes took place along Israel's borders	When did Egypt close the Suez Canal to Israel?
Arab nationalists led by Egyptian President Gamal Abdel Nasser refused to recognize Israel, and called for its destruction	Who refused toe recognize Israel?
In the late 1960s and early 1970s, Palestinian groups launched a wave of attacks against Israeli and Jewish targets around the world, including a massacre of Israeli athletes at the 1972 Summer Olympics in Munich	Where was the massacre of the Israeli athletes?
On 6 October 1973, as Jews were observing Yom Kippur, the Egyptian and Syrian armies launched a surprise attack against Israeli forces in the Sinai Peninsula and Golan Heights, that opened the Yom Kippur War	When did the Egyptian and Syrian armies launch a surprise attack against Israeli forces?
The 1977 Knesset elections marked a major turning point in Israeli political history as Menachem Begin's Likud party took control from the Labor Party	Where did Anwar El Sadat make a trip to?
On 11 March 1978, a PLO guerilla raid from Lebanon led to the Coastal Road Massacre	When did the Coastal Road Massacre occur?
In 1981 Israel annexed the Golan Heights, although annexation was not recognized internationally	When did Israel annex the Golan Heights?
On 7 June 1981, the Israeli air force destroyed Iraq's sole nuclear reactor, in order to impede Iraq's nuclear weapons program	When did the Israeli air force destroy Iraq's sole nuclear reactor?
The First Intifada, a Palestinian uprising against Israeli rule, broke out in 1987, with waves of uncoordinated demonstrations and violence occurring in the occupied West Bank and Gaza	When did the First Intifada break out?
In 1992, Yitzhak Rabin became Prime Minister following an election in which his party called for compromise with Israel's neighbors	Who became the Prime Minister in 1992?
At the end of the 1990s, Israel, under the leadership of Benjamin Netanyahu, withdrew from Hebron, and signed the Wye River Memorandum, giving greater control to the Palestinian National Authority	Who led Israel in the 1990s?
After the collapse of the talks and a controversial visit by Likud leader Ariel Sharon to the Temple Mount, the Second Intifada began	Who visited the Temple Mount?
On 6 September 2007, the Israeli Air Force destroyed a nuclear reactor in Syria	When did the Israeli Air Force destroy a nuclear reactor in Syria?
East of the central highlands lies the Jordan Rift Valley, which forms a small part of the 6,500-kilometer Great Rift Valley	Where does the Jordan Rift Valley lie?
The Jordan River runs along the Jordan Rift Valley, from Mount Hermon through the Hulah Valley and the Sea of Galilee to the Dead Sea, the lowest point on the surface of the Earth	What river runs along the Jordan Rift Valley?
The Jordan Rift Valley is the result of tectonic movements within the Dead Sea Transform fault system	What is the result of tectonic movements within the Dead Sea Transform?
The most catastrophic earthquakes we know of occurred in 31 BCE, 363, 749, and 1033 CE, that is every ca	When did the most catastrophic earthquakes occur?
Coastal areas, such as those of Tel Aviv and Haifa, have a typical Mediterranean climate with cool, rainy winters and long, hot summers	What kind of climate does Tel Aviv have?
With scarce water resources, Israel has developed various water-saving technologies, including drip irrigation	Israel developed what?
In 2016, Israel's population was an estimated 8,476,600 million people, of whom 6,345,400 (74	What was Israel's population in 2016?
In 2009, over 300,000 Israeli citizens lived in West Bank settlements such as Ma'ale Adumim and Ariel, including settlements that predated the establishment of the State of Israel and which were re-established after the Six-Day War, in cities such as Hebron and Gush Etzion	How many Israeli citizens lived in West Bank settlements?
Israel was established as a homeland for the Jewish people and is often referred to as a Jewish state	What's the homeland for Jewish people?
Israel has two official languages, Hebrew and Arabic	What are the two official languages of Israel?
Making up 16% of the population, Muslims constitute Israel's largest religious minority	Muslims make up how much of the Israel's population?
The city of Jerusalem is of special importance to Jews, Muslims and Christians as it is the home of sites that are pivotal to their religious beliefs, such as the Old City that incorporates the Western Wall and the Temple Mount, the Al-Aqsa Mosque and the Church of the Holy Sepulchre	What incorporates the Western Wall and the Temple Mount?
In 2012, the country ranked second among OECD countries for the percentage of 25- to 64-year-olds that have attained tertiary education with 46 percent compared with the OECD average of 32 percent	What was Israel ranked among OECD countries?
Proficiency in core subjects such as mathematics, the Hebrew language, Hebrew and general literature, the English language, history, Biblical scripture and civics is necessary to receive a Bagrut certificate	What is necessary to receive a Bagrut certificate?
Israel has nine public universities that are subsidized by the state and 49 private colleges	How many public universities does Israel have?
Israel operates under a parliamentary system as a democratic republic with universal suffrage	Israel operates under what kind of system?
Israel has a three-tier court system	What kind of court system does Israel have?
Israel's legal system combines three legal traditions: English common law, civil law, and Jewish law	What legal traditions does Israel combine?
The State of Israel is divided into six main administrative districts, known as mehozot – Center, Haifa, Jerusalem, North, Southern, and Tel Aviv Districts, as well as the Judea and Samaria Area in the West Bank	The State of Israel is divided into how many administrative districts?
For statistical purposes, the country is divided into three metropolitan areas: Tel Aviv metropolitan area , Haifa metropolitan area , and Beer Sheva metropolitan area 	How many metropolitan areas are there?
"The UN Security Council has declared the annexation of the Golan Heights and East Jerusalem to be ""null and void"" and continues to view the territories as occupied"	Who declared the annexation of the Golan Heights and East Jerusalem?
The status of East Jerusalem in any future peace settlement has at times been a difficult issue in negotiations between Israeli governments and representatives of the Palestinians, as Israel views it as its sovereign territory, as well as part of its capital	Israel views East Jerusalem as what?
The West Bank was annexed by Jordan in 1950, following the Arab rejection of the UN decision to create two states in Palestine	When was the West Bank annexed by Jordan?
The Gaza Strip was occupied by Egypt from 1948 to 1967 and then by Israel after 1967	The Gaza Strip was occupied by who from 1948 to 1967?
Israel maintains diplomatic relations with 158 countries and has 107 diplomatic missions around the world; countries with whom they have no diplomatic relations include most Muslim countries	How many countries does Israel maintain diplomatic relations?
The United States and the Soviet Union were the first two countries to recognize the State of Israel, having declared recognition roughly simultaneously	Who were the first two countries to recognize the State of Israel?
Under the reparations agreement, by 2007 Germany had paid 25 billion euros in reparations to the Israeli state and individual Israeli Holocaust survivors	How much did Germany pay in reparations to the Israeli state?
Although Turkey and Israel did not establish full diplomatic relations until 1991, Turkey has cooperated with the State since its recognition of Israel in 1949	When did Turkey and Israel establish full diplomatic relations?
India established full diplomatic ties with Israel in 1992 and has fostered a strong military, technological and cultural partnership with the country since then	When did India establish full diplomatic ties with Israel?
Israel's humanitarian efforts officially began in 1958, with the establishment of MASHAV, the Israeli Ministry of Foreign Affairs Agency for International Development Cooperation	When was MASHAV established?
Between 1985 and 2015, Israel sent 24 delegations of IDF search and rescue unit to 22 countries	How many delegations of IDF search and rescue units between 1985 and 2015?
The Israel Defense Forces is the sole military wing of the Israeli security forces, and is headed by its Chief of General Staff, the Ramatkal, subordinate to the Cabinet	What is the sole military wing of the Israeli security forces?
Most Israelis are drafted into the military at the age of 18	What age are most Israelis drafted into the military?
The nation's military relies heavily on high-tech weapons systems designed and manufactured in Israel as well as some foreign imports	The military relies on what?
Israel is widely believed to possess nuclear weapons as well as chemical and biological weapons of mass destruction	Israel is widely believed to possess what?
Israel has one of the highest ratios of defense spending to GDP of all developed countries, only topped by Oman and Saudi Arabia	What two countries have a higher defense spending to GDP ratio than Israel?
Israel is considered the most advanced country in Southwest Asia and the Middle East in economic and industrial development	Who is considered the most advanced country in Southwest Asia?
Leading exports include electronics, software, computerized systems, communications technology, medical equipment, pharmaceuticals, fruits, chemicals, military technology, and cut diamonds; in 2012, Israeli exports reached $64	What are the leading exports in Israel?
Israel is a leading country in the development of solar energy	Israel is a leading country of what development?
In July 2007, American business magnate and investor Warren Buffett's holding company Berkshire Hathaway bought an Israeli company, Iscar, its first non-U	What investor bought Iscar?
Days of working time in Israel are Sunday through Thursday , or Friday 	What are the days of working in Israel?
Israeli universities are among 100 top world universities in mathematics , physics , chemistry , computer science and economics 	Israeli universities rank where in mathematics?
In 2011, its water technology industry was worth around $2 billion a year with annual exports of products and services in the tens of millions of dollars	How much is Israel's water technology industry worth?
Over 90% of Israeli homes use solar energy for hot water, the highest per capita in the world	How many homes in Israel use solar energy for hot water?
The Israeli Space Agency coordinates all Israeli space research programs with scientific and commercial goals	What coordinates with all Israeli space research programs?
Israel has 18,096 kilometers of paved roads, and 2	How many kilometers of paved roads does Israel have?
Israel is served by two international airports, Ben Gurion International Airport, the country's main hub for international air travel near Tel Aviv-Yafo, Ovda Airport in the south, as well as several small domestic airports	What is the country's main hub for international air travel?
Tourism, especially religious tourism, is an important industry in Israel, with the country's temperate climate, beaches, archaeological, other historical and biblical sites, and unique geography also drawing tourists	What is an important industry in Israel?
Israel's diverse culture stems from the diversity of its population: Jews from diaspora communities around the world have brought their cultural and religious traditions back with them, creating a melting pot of Jewish customs and beliefs	Where does Israel's diverse culture stem from?
Israeli literature is primarily poetry and prose written in Hebrew, as part of the renaissance of Hebrew as a spoken language since the mid-19th century, although a small body of literature is published in other languages, such as English	Israeli literature is primarily written in what?
In 1966, Shmuel Yosef Agnon shared the Nobel Prize in Literature with German Jewish author Nelly Sachs	Shmuel Yosef Agnon shared the Nobel Prize with who in 1966?
Among Israel's world-renowned orchestras is the Israel Philharmonic Orchestra, which has been in operation for over seventy years and today performs more than two hundred concerts each year	What Israeli orchestra has been in operation for more than seventy years?
"The nation's canonical folk songs, known as ""Songs of the Land of Israel,"" deal with the experiences of the pioneers in building the Jewish homeland"	What the nation's canonical folk songs known as?
Israel is home to many Palestinian musicians, including internationally acclaimed oud and violin virtuoso Taiseer Elias, singer Amal Murkus, and brothers Samir and Wissam Joubran	What internationally acclaimed violin virtuoso is from Israel?
The Israel Museum in Jerusalem is one of Israel's most important cultural institutions and houses the Dead Sea scrolls, along with an extensive collection of Judaica and European art	What is one of Israel's most important culturural institutions?
Since the establishment of the State in 1948, and particularly since the late 1970s, an Israeli fusion cuisine has developed	When was Israeli fusion cuisine first developed?
Israeli cuisine has adopted, and continues to adapt, elements of various styles of Jewish cuisine, particularly the Mizrahi, Sephardic, and Ashkenazi styles of cooking, along with Moroccan Jewish, Iraqi Jewish, Ethiopian Jewish, Indian Jewish, Iranian Jewish and Yemeni Jewish influences	What styles of cooking has Israeli cuisine adopted?
The most popular spectator sports in Israel are association football and basketball	What are the most popular spectator sports in Israel?
In 1964 Israel hosted and won the Asian Nations Cup; in 1970 the Israel national football team managed to qualify to the FIFA World Cup, which is still considered[by whom	When did Israel host and win the Asian Nations Cup?
Chess is a leading sport in Israel and is enjoyed by people of all ages	What's a leading sport in Israel?
Greek Science was advanced by the works of the mathematician Euclid and the polymath Archimedes	What mathematician advance Greek Science?
This mixture of Greek-speakers gave birth to a common Attic-based dialect, known as Koine Greek, which became the lingua franca through the Hellenistic world	What is a common Attic-based dialect?
The Hellenistic period may be seen to end either with the final conquest of the Greek heartlands by Rome in 146 BC following the Achean War, with the final defeat of the Ptolemaic Kingdom at the Battle of Actium in 31 BC, or even the move by Roman emperor Constantine the Great of the capital of the Roman Empire to Constantinople in 330 AD	When was the final defeat of the Ptolemaic Kingdom?
History of Hellenism, coined the term Hellenistic to refer to and define the period when Greek culture spread in the non-Greek world after Alexander’s conquest	What does Geschichte des Hellenismus mean?
Some areas of the conquered world were more affected by Greek influences than others	How much of the conquered world was affected by Greek influences?
The earliest and most credible surviving source for the Hellenistic period is Polybius of Megalopolis (c	What is the earliest, most credible source of the Hellenistic period?
The most important source after Polybius is Diodorus Siculus who wrote his Bibliotheca historica between 60 and 30 BCE and reproduced some important earlier sources such as Hieronymus, but his account of the Hellenistic period breaks off after the battle of Ipsus 	When did Diodorus Siculus write Bibliotheca historica?
After the Peloponnesian War , Greece had fallen under a Spartan hegemony, in which Sparta was pre-eminent but not all-powerful	When was the Peloponnesian War?
In 352 BC he annexed Thessaly and Magnesia	When did King Philip the II annex Thessaly and Magnesia?
Meleager and the infantry supported the candidacy of Alexander's half-brother, Philip Arrhidaeus, while Perdiccas, the leading cavalry commander, supported waiting until the birth of Alexander's unborn child by Roxana	Who was Philip Arrhidaues' half brother?
The first of the Diadochi wars broke out when Perdiccas planned to marry Alexander's sister Cleopatra and began to question Antigonus I Monophthalmus' leadership in Asia Minor	Who did Diadochi plan to marry?
The second Diadochi war began following the death of Antipater in 319 BC	When did Antipater die?
He began removing and appointing satraps as if he were king and also raided the royal treasuries in Ectabana, Persepolis and Susa, making off with 25,000 talents	How many talents did Diadochi steal from Ectabana, Persepolis and Susa?
Antigonus then sent his son Demetrius to regain control of Greece	Which son did Antigonus send to regain control of Greece?
Seleucus arrived in time to save Lysimachus and utterly crushed Antigonus at the Battle of Ipsus in 301 BCE	Who saved Lysimachus in Phrygia?
After Cassander's death in 298 BCE, however, Demetrius, who still maintained a sizable loyal army and fleet, invaded Macedon, seized the Macedonian throne and conquered Thessaly and most of central Greece 	When did Cassander die?
The great centers of Hellenistic culture were Alexandria and Antioch, capitals of Ptolemaic Egypt and Seleucid Syria respectively	What was the capital of the Ptolemaic Egypt?
One example is Athens, which had been decisively defeated by Antipater in the Lamian war and had its port in the Piraeus garrisoned by Macedonian troops who supported a conservative oligarchy	When was the Lamian war?
The Spartan king Cleomenes III staged a military coup against the conservative ephors and pushed through radical social and land reforms in order to increase the size of the shrinking Spartan citizenry able to provide military service and restore Spartan power	What years did Cleomenes III rule?
370 BCE), the Achaean League (est	When was the Aetolian League formed?
After holding out for one year under siege by Demetrius Poliorcetes , the Rhodians built the Colossus of Rhodes to commemorate their victory	What did Rhodians build to commemorate their victory over Demetrius Poliorcetes?
Antigonus II, a student of Zeno of Citium, spent most of his rule defending Macedon against Epirus and cementing Macedonian power in Greece, first against the Athenians in the Chremonidean War, and then against the Achaean League of Aratus of Sicyon	What war did Antigonus II fight Athenians?
"Philip V, who came to power when Doson died in 221 BC, was the last Macedonian ruler with both the talent and the opportunity to unite Greece and preserve its independence against the ""cloud rising in the west"": the ever-increasing power of Rome"	When did Doson die?
In 215 BC Philip, with his eye on Illyria, formed an alliance with Rome's enemy Hannibal of Carthage, which led to Roman alliances with the Achaean League, Rhodes and Pergamum	When did Philip form and alliance with Hannibal of Carthage?
The west Balkan coast was inhabited by various Illyrian tribes and kingdoms such as the kingdom of the Dalmatae and of the Ardiaei, who often engaged in piracy under Queen Teuta 	What years did Queen Teutra reign?
The Odrysian Kingdom was a union of Thracian tribes under the kings of the powerful Odrysian tribe centered around the region of Thrace	What region was the center of the Odrysian Kingdom?
Southern Italy and south-eastern Sicily had been colonized by the Greeks during the 8th century	What was Southern Italy refered to as?
The first Greek colony in the region was Massalia, which became one of the largest trading ports of Mediterranean by the 4th century BCE with 6,000 inhabitants	What was the first Greek colony in the Mediterranean?
The Hellenistic states of Asia and Egypt were run by an occupying imperial elite of Greco-Macedonian administrators and governors propped up by a standing army of mercenaries and a small core of Greco-Macedonian settlers	Who ran the Hellenistic states of Asia and Egypt?
Ptolemy, a somatophylax, one of the seven bodyguards who served as Alexander the Great's generals and deputies, was appointed satrap of Egypt after Alexander's death in 323 BC	Who was appointed satrap of Egypt after Alexander's death?
The Ptolemies took on the traditions of the Egyptian Pharaohs, such as marrying their siblings , having themselves portrayed on public monuments in Egyptian style and dress, and participating in Egyptian religious life	Whose tradition did Ptolemy take on as leader of Egypt?
He and his successors also fought a series of wars with the Seleucids, known as the Syrian wars, over the region of Coele-Syria	The Syrian was were fought between Ptolemy II and whom?
Ptolemy's family ruled Egypt until the Roman conquest of 30 BC	Till what year did Ptolemy's family rule Egypt?
Following division of Alexander's empire, Seleucus I Nicator received Babylonia	After Alexander's empire was split, what region did Seleucus I Nicator receive?
The vast Seleucid Empire was, like Egypt, mostly dominated by a Greco-Macedonian political elite	The Seleucid Empire was mostly dominated by whom?
After the death of Lysimachus, one of his officers, Philetaerus, took control of the city of Pergamum in 282 BC along with Lysimachus' war chest of 9,000 talents and declared himself loyal to Seleucus I while remaining de facto independent	Which officer took control of Pergamum in 282 BC?
The Celts who settled in Galatia came through Thrace under the leadership of Leotarios and Leonnorios circa 270 BC	Where did the Celts who settled in Galatia pass through?
The Bithynians were a Thracian people living in northwest Anatolia	Who were a Thracian people living in northwest Anatolia?
, Ariarathes III took the title of king and married Stratonice, a daughter of Antiochus II, remaining an ally of the Seleucid kingdom	Who married Stratonice?
The Kingdom of Pontus was a Hellenistic kingdom on the southern coast of the Black Sea	What kingdom was Hellenistic and on the southern coast of the Black Sea?
The kingdom grew to its largest extent under Mithridates VI, who conquered Colchis, Cappadocia, Paphlagonia, Bithynia, Lesser Armenia, the Bosporan Kingdom, the Greek colonies of the Tauric Chersonesos and for a brief time the Roman province of Asia	Who ruled when the Kingdom of Pontus' was at it's biggest?
Orontid Armenia formally passed to empire of Alexander the Great following his conquest of Persia	Orontid Armenia was given to Alexander the Great after he took control of what area?
After the Seleucid defeat at the Battle of Magnesia in 190 BC, the kings of Sophene and Greater Armenia revolted and declared their independence, with Artaxias becoming the first king of the Artaxiad dynasty of Armenia in 188	When did the Seleucid defeat the Battle of Magnesia?
In 247 BC, following the death of Antiochus II Theos, Andragoras, the Seleucid governor of Parthia, proclaimed his independence and began minting coins showing himself wearing a royal diadem and claiming kingship	When did Andragoras proclaim his independence?
The Seleucid–Parthian wars continued as the Seleucids invaded Mesopotamia under Antiochus VII Sidetes (r	The Seleucids invaded Mesopotamia under whose guidance?
The Nabatean Kingdom was an Arab state located between the Sinai Peninsula and the Arabian Peninsula	What Arab State lied between the Sinai Peninsula and the Arabian Peninsula?
During the Hellenistic period, Judea became a frontier region between the Seleucid Empire and Ptolemaic Egypt and therefore was often the frontline of the Syrian wars, changing hands several times during these conflicts	What are was in between the Seleucid Empire and Ptolemaic Egypt during Hellenistic times?
the Tobiads)	What was the Jewish elite class called?
Out of this revolt was formed an independent Jewish kingdom known as the Hasmonaean Dynasty, which lasted from 165 BCE to 63 BCE	What independent kingdom was formed out of the Maccabean Revolt of Judas Maccabeus?
Between 255-246 BCE, the governor of Bactria, Sogdiana and Margiana , one Diodotus, took this process to its logical extreme and declared himself king	Bactria was led by what king from 255-246 BCE?
According to Strabo, the Greco-Bactrians seem to have had contacts with China through the silk road trade routes (Strabo, XI	Who stated that the Greco-Bactrians had connections through the silk road?
After Demetrius' death, civil wars between Bactrian kings in India allowed Apollodotus I (from c	Who was the first Indo-Greek king who did not rule from Bactria?
130 BC), the Kingdom appears to have fragmented, with several 'kings' attested contemporaneously in different regions	When did Menander die?
"The Mahabharata compliments them as ""the all-knowing Yavanas"" i"	"What does ""sarvajnaa yavanaa"" mean?"
Hellenistic culture was at its height of world influence in the Hellenistic period	What period was Hellenistic culture at it's height?
Before the Hellenistic period, Greek colonies had been established on the coast of the Crimean and Taman peninsulas	Before Hellenestic influence, Greek colonies were on the shores of the Taman and what other peninsula?
In Arabia, Bahrain, which was referred to by the Greeks as Tylos, the centre of pearl trading, when Nearchus came to discover it serving under Alexander the Great	What did the Greeks call Bahrain?
Carthage was a Phoenician colony on the coast of Tunisia	Carthage was on the coast of what country?
Rome had come to dominate the Italian peninsula, and desired the submission of the Greek cities to its rule	Rome dominated what peninsula?
Roman entanglement in the Balkans began when Illyrian piratical raids on Roman merchants led to invasions of Illyria 	Illyrian pirates caused two wars in the Balkans with what Empire?
Once the Second Punic War had been resolved, and the Romans had begun to regather their strength, they looked to re-assert their influence in the Balkans, and to curb the expansion of Philip	In what region did the Romans aim to re-bolster the influence after the Second Punic war?
The Seleucid Antiochus III had allied with Philip V of Macedon in 203 BC, agreeing that they should jointly conquer the lands of the boy-king of Egypt, Ptolemy V	Antiochus III allied with what king in 203 BC?
Seeking to re-assert Macedonian power and Greek independence, Philip V's son Perseus incurred the wrath of the Romans, resulting in the Third Macedonian War 	What was the name of Philip V's son who wanted to bring back Greek independence?
The Attalid dynasty of Pergamum lasted little longer; a Roman ally until the end, its final king Attalus III died in 133 BC without an heir, and taking the alliance to its natural conclusion, willed Pergamum to the Roman Republic	Who was the final king of the Attalid dynasty?
Contrarily, having so firmly entrenched themselves into Greek affairs, the Romans now completely ignored the rapidly disintegrating Seleucid empire ; and left the Ptolemaic kingdom to decline quietly, while acting as a protector of sorts, in as much as to stop other powers taking Egypt over 	Who tried to invade Egypt in the famous line-in-the-sand incident?
The preservation of many classical and archaic works of art and literature are due to the efforts of the Hellenistic Greeks	Who is most responsible for the preservation of Hellenistic culture?
Athens retained its position as the most prestigious seat of higher education, especially in the domains of philosophy and rhetoric, with considerable libraries and philosophical schools	Which city held the most prestigious seat of higher education?
The language of Philip II's and Alexander's court and army was a version of Attic Greek, and over time this language developed into Koine, the lingua franca of the successor states	Philip II and Alexander's court army spoke a version of what language?
The identification of local gods with similar Greek deities, a practice termed 'Interpretatio graeca', facilitated the building of Greek-style temples, and the Greek culture in the cities also meant that buildings such as gymnasia and theaters became common	The practice of identifying local gods with Greek deities is called what?
It seems likely that Alexander himself pursued policies which led Hellenization, such as the foundations of new cities and Greek colonies	Who led Hellenization practices by founding new Greek cities and colonies?
"Throughout the Hellenistic world, these Greco-Macedonian colonists considered themselves by and large superior to the native ""barbarians"" and excluded most non-Greeks from the upper echelons of courtly and government life"	Native populations in the Hellenistic world were discriminated by what peoples?
The Indo-Greek kingdom, we find kings who were converts to Buddhism (e	Menander converted to what religion?
The farther away from the Mediterranean and the lower in social status, the more likely that a colonist was to adopt local ways, while the Greco-Macedonian elites and Royal families, usually remained thoroughly Greek and viewed most non-Greeks with disdain	A colonist far from the Mediterranean and low in social rank would be more likely to do what?
This varied greatly on location, Athens, Sparta and most cities in the Greek mainland did not see much religious change or new gods , while the multi-ethnic Alexandria had a very varied group of gods and religious practices, including Egyptian, Jewish and Greek	What Egyptian god was worshipped in Athens?
The worship of dynastic ruler cults was also a feature of this period, most notably in Egypt, where the Ptolemies adopted earlier Pharaonic practice, and established themselves as god-kings	What practice did the Ptolemies adopt in which they dubbed themselves god-kings?
The Hellenistic age also saw a rise in the disillusionment with traditional religion	The Hellinistic age marked the rise in what type of religion?
Throughout the Hellenistic world, people would consult oracles, and use charms and figurines to deter misfortune or to cast spells	How would people ward off misfortune in Hellenistic times?
The Hellenistic period saw the rise of New Comedy, the only few surviving representative texts being those of Menander 	Menander is one of the few remaining pieces of what time of liteary work?
Hellenistic poets now sought patronage from kings, and wrote works in their honor	Who did Hellenistic poets wish to court?
Athens, with its multiple philosophical schools, continued to remain the center of philosophical thought	What city remained the center of philosophical thought?
Epicurus promoted atomism and an asceticism based on freedom from pain as its ultimate goal	Who promoted freedom from pain as the ultimate goal?
Hellenistic culture produced seats of learning throughout the Mediterranean	The Royal patrons of Alexander's successors supported what type of science?
 287 – 212 BC), Apollonius of Perga (c	When did Archimedes die?
 190 – c	When was Hipparchus born?
The level of Hellenistic achievement in astronomy and engineering is impressively shown by the Antikythera mechanism 	What is the name of the 37 gear computer which noted the motions of the Sun and Moon?
Medicine, which was dominated by the Hippocratic tradition, saw new advances under Praxagoras of Kos, who theorized that blood traveled through the veins	Who theorized that blood traveled through the veins?
Hellenistic warfare was a continuation of the military developments of Iphicrates and Philip II of Macedon, particularly his use of the Macedonian Phalanx, a dense formation of pikemen, in conjunction with heavy companion cavalry	Philip II used a dense military formation called what?
The Ptolemaic Tessarakonteres was the largest ship constructed in Antiquity	What was the largest ship constructed in Antiquity?
Hellenistic art saw a turn from the idealistic, perfected, calm and composed figures of classical Greek art to a style dominated by realism and the depiction of emotion and character 	Emotion is called what in Hellenistic art?
Artists such as Peiraikos chose mundane and lower class subjects for his paintings	Which artist chose mundane and low class subjects?
Developments in painting included experiments in chiaroscuro by Zeuxis and the development of landscape painting and still life painting	Which Greek painter experimented in chiaroscuro?
Pliny the Elder, after having described the sculpture of the classical period says: Cessavit deinde ars 	"Who said ""then art dissapeared""?"
The focus on the Hellenistic period over the course of the 19th century by scholars and historians has led to an issue common to the study of historical periods; historians see the period of focus as a mirror of the period in which they are living	What century of scholars considered the Hellenistic period a decline in culture from classic Greece?
However, William Woodthorpe Tarn, between World War I and World War II and the heyday of the League of Nations, focused on the issues of racial and cultural confrontation and the nature of colonial rule	Who focused on the issue of racial and cultural confrontation?
The foundation, based in Seattle, Washington, is controlled by its three trustees: Bill Gates, Melinda Gates and Warren Buffett	Where is the Bill and Melinda gates foundation based? 
On June 25, 2006, Warren Buffett pledged to give the foundation approximately 10 million Berkshire Hathaway Class B shares spread over multiple years through annual contributions, with the first year's donation of 500,000 shares being worth approximately US$1	What was warren Buffett's estimated net worth in 2008 
"In November 2014, the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation announced that they are adopting an open access policy for publications and data, ""to enable the unrestricted access and reuse of all peer-reviewed published research funded by the foundation, including any underlying data sets"""	In what year did Bill and Melinda Gates adopt open access policy for capacity building and knowledge sharing?
"The foundation section, based in Seattle, US, ""focuses on improving health and alleviating extreme poverty,"" and its trustees are Bill and Melinda Gates and Warren Buffett"	What does the foundation entity focus on
The foundation trust invests undistributed assets, with the exclusive goal of maximizing the return on investment	What does the Trust invest
In March 2006, the foundation announced a US$5 million grant for the International Justice Mission , a human rights organization based in Washington, D	What did the foundation announce in March 2006 
"The IJM used the grant money to found ""Project Lantern"" and established an office in the Philippines city of Cebu"	What was the name of the project founded by the IJM 
"The Water, Sanitation and Hygiene program of the Gates Foundation was launched in mid-2005 as a ""Learning Initiative,"" and became a full-fledged program under the Global Development Division in early 2010"	When did the WSH become a full fledeged program
"In mid 2011, the Foundation announced in its new ""Water, Sanitation, Hygiene Strategy Overview"" that its funding now focuses primarily on sanitation, particularly in sub-Saharan Africa and South Asia, because access to improved sanitation is lowest in those regions"	What did the foundation announce in 2011
Improved sanitation in the developing world is a global need, but a neglected priority as shown by the data collected by the Joint Monitoring Programme for Water Supply and Sanitation of UNICEF and WHO	What is need in the developing world 
"In 2011, the foundation launched a program called ""Reinvent the Toilet Challenge"" with the aim to promote the development of innovations in toilet design to benefit the 2"	When was reinvent the toilet launched 
The grants were in the order of 400,000 USD for their first phase, followed by typically 1-3 million USD for their second phase; many of them investigated resource recovery or processing technologies for excreta or fecal sludge	How much were the grants for 
The Reinvent the Toilet Challenge is a long-term research and development effort to develop a hygienic, stand-alone toilet	What is reinvent the toilet trying to develop
The foundation has donated billions of dollars to help sufferers of AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria, protecting millions of children from death at the hands of preventable diseases	The foundation has donated billions to sufferers of 
"Melinda Gates has stated that the foundation ""has decided not to fund abortion"""	What did the foundation decide not to fund
Only 35% of the world's population has access to the Internet	How much of the worlds population can reach the internet
efforts involves an overhaul of the country's education policies at both the K-12 and college levels, including support for teacher evaluations and charter schools and opposition to seniority-based layoffs and other aspects of the education system that are typically backed by teachers' unions	What do these efforts include
"One of the foundation's goals is to lower poverty by increasing the number of college graduates in the United States, and the organization has funded ""Reimagining Aid Design and Delivery"" grants to think tanks and advocacy organizations to produce white papers on ideas for changing the current system of federal financial aid for college students, with a goal of increasing graduation rates"	What is 1 foundation goal 
As part of its education-related initiatives, the foundation has funded journalists, think tanks, lobbying organizations and governments	What has been funded as part of the education initiatives
The K-12 and higher education reform programs of the Gates Foundation have been criticized by some education professionals, parents, and researchers because they have driven the conversation on education reform to such an extent that they may marginalize researchers who do not support Gates' predetermined policy preferences	Why were the gates foundation educational reforms critcized
"In October 2006, the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation was split into two entities: the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation Trust, which manages the endowment assets and the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, which """	What two entities was the foundation split into in october 2016
It is classified as a Beta World City, ranking seventh in Latin America and 73rd in the world	What is Montevideo classified as?
A Spanish expedition was sent from Buenos Aires, organized by the Spanish governor of that city, Bruno Mauricio de Zabala	Who organized the Spanish expedition?
A few years after its foundation, Montevideo became the main city of the region north of the Río de la Plata and east of the Uruguay River, competing with Buenos Aires for dominance in maritime commerce	What became the main city of the region north of the Rio de la Plata?
On 3 February 1807, British troops under the command of General Samuel Auchmuty and Admiral Charles Stirling occupied the city during the Battle of Montevideo , but it was recaptured by the Spanish in the same year on 2 September when John Whitelocke was forced to surrender to troops formed by forces of the Banda Oriental—roughly the same area as modern Uruguay—and of Buenos Aires	When did British troops occupy the city of Montevideo?
During the May Revolution of 1810 and the subsequent uprising of the provinces of Rio de la Plata, the Spanish colonial government moved to Montevideo	After the Revolution of 1810 there was a subsequent uprising of what provinces? 
The Spanish governor was expelled in 1814	What year was the Spanish governor expelled?
Uruguay's 1830s were dominated by the confrontation between Manuel Oribe and Fructuoso Rivera, the two revolutionary leaders who had fought against the Empire of Brazil under the command of Lavalleja, each of whom had become the caudillo of their respective faction	Manuel Oribe and Fructuoso Rivera fought against what empire?
The city of Montevideo suffered a siege of eight years between 1843 and 1851, during which it was supplied by sea with British and French support	What did Montevideo suffer between 1843 and 1851?
In 1853 a stagecoach bus line was established joining Montevideo with the newly formed settlement of Unión and the first natural gas street lights were inaugurated	What year was a stagecoach bus line established in Montevideo?
In 1868, the horse-drawn tram company Compañía de Tranvías al Paso del Molino y Cerro created the first lines connecting Montevideo with Unión, the beach resort of Capurro and the industrialized and economically independent Villa del Cerro, at the time called Cosmopolis	What year did Compania de Tranvias al Paso del Molino y Cerro creat the first lines connecting Montevideo with Union?
The first telephone lines were installed in 1882 and electric street lights took the place of the gas operated ones in 1886	When were the first telephone lines installed?
In the early 20th century, many Europeans immigrated to the city	What century did many Europeans immigrate to the city of Montevideo?
During World War II, a famous incident involving the German pocket battleship Admiral Graf Spee took place in Punta del Este, 200 kilometers from Montevideo	Who was the Admiral of the German pocket ship?
Montevideo is situated on the north shore of the Río de la Plata, the arm of the Atlantic Ocean that separates the south coast of Uruguay from the north coast of Argentina; Buenos Aires lies 230 kilometres west on the Argentine side	Montevideo is situated on the north shore of what?
The city has an average elevation of 43 metres 	The city of Montevideo has an average elevation of what?
The Municipality of Montevideo was first created by a legal act of 18 December 1908	The Municipality of Montevideo was first created by a legal act of what?
As of 2010, the city of Montevideo has been divided into 8 political municipalities , referred to with the letters from A to G, including CH, each presided over by a mayor elected by the citizens registered in the constituency	How many political municipalities has the city of Montevideo been divided into as of 2010?
Many of the city's barrios—such as Sayago, Ituzaingó and Pocitos—were previously geographically separate settlements, later absorbed by the growth of the city	What had many of the city's barrios previously been?
In 1860, Montevideo had 57,913 inhabitants including a number of people of African origin who had been brought as slaves and had gained their freedom around the middle of the century	How many inhabitants did Montevideo have in 1860?
According to the census survey carried out between 15 June and 31 July 2004, Montevideo had a population of 1,325,968 persons, compared to Uruguay's total population of 3,241,003	According to the census survey carried out between 15 June and 31 July 2004, what was Montevideo's population?
As the capital of Uruguay, Montevideo is the economic and political centre of the country	What is the economic and political centre of the country?
The most important state-owned companies headquartered in Montevideo are: AFE , ANCAP , Administracion Nacional de Puertos , ANTEL , BHU , BROU , BSE , OSE , UTE 	What kind of company does ANCAP run?
"Banking has traditionally been one of the strongest service export sectors in Uruguay: the country was once dubbed ""the Switzerland of America"", mainly for its banking sector and stability, although that stability has been threatened in the 21st century by the recent global economic climate"	What has traditionally been the strongest service export sectors in Uruguay?
Tourism accounts for much of Uruguay's economy	What accounts for much of Uruguay's economy?
The Sheraton has 207 guest rooms and 10 suites and is luxuriously furnished with imported furniture	How many guest rooms does the Sheraton have?
Montevideo is the heartland of retailing in Uruguay	What is the heartland of retailing in Uruguay?
The architecture of Montevideo ranges from Neoclassical buildings such as the Montevideo Metropolitan Cathedral to the Postmodern style of the World Trade Center Montevideo or the 158-metre ANTEL Telecommunication Tower, the tallest skyscraper in the country	What style of building is the Montevideo Metropolitan Cathedral? 
The Pocitos district, near the beach of the same name, has many homes built by Bello and Reboratti between 1920 and 1940, with a mixture of styles	What district has many homes built by Bello and reboratti?
World Trade Center Montevideo officially opened in 1998, although work is still ongoing as of 2010	When did World Trade Center Montevideo officially open?
The Towers Square, is an area of remarkable aesthetic design, intended to be a platform for the development of business activities, art exhibitions, dance and music performances and social place	What was intended to be a platform for the development of business activities?
The Solís Theatre is Uruguay's oldest theatre	What is Uruguay's oldest theater? 
Palacio Salvo, at the intersection of 18 de Julio Avenue and Plaza Independencia, was designed by the architect Mario Palanti and completed in 1925	Who designed the Palacio Salvo?
Also of major note in Ciudad Vieja is the Plaza de la Constitución 	What is also a major note in Ciudad Vieja?
Parque Batlle is a major public central park, located south of Avenida Italia and north of Avenue Rivera	What major public central park is located south of Avenida Italia? 
Parque Batlle is named in honour of José Batlle y Ordóñez, President of Uruguay from 1911 to 1915	Parque Batlle is named in honor of who?
Parque Rodó is both a barrio of Montevideo and a park which lies mostly outside the limits of the neighbourhood itself and belongs to Punta Carretas	Parque Rodo belongs to who?
On the east side of the main park area is the National Museum of Visual Arts	What is on the east side of the park?
The first set of subsidiary forts were planned by the Portuguese at Montevideo in 1701 to establish a front line base to stop frequent insurrections by the Spaniards emanating from Buenos Aires	Who planned the first set of subsidiary forts?
Fortaleza del Cerro overlooks the bay of Montevideo	What overlooks the bay of Montevideo?
The Rambla is an avenue that goes along the entire coastline of Montevideo	What avenue goes along the entire coastline of Montevideo?
The largest cemetery is the Cementerio del Norte, located in the northern-central part of the city	What is the largest cemetery?
The British Cemetery Montevideo is another of the oldest cemeteries in Uruguay, located in the Buceo neighborhood	Where is the British Cemetery Montevideo located?
Uruguayan tango is a unique form of dance that originated in the neighbourhoods of Montevideo towards the end of the 1800s	What unique form of dance originated in the neighbourhods of Montevideo?
The first public library in Montevideo was formed by the initial donation of the private library of Father José Manuel Pérez Castellano, who died in 1815	Who gave the initial donation of the private library?
In Montevideo, as throughout the Rio de Plata region, the most popular forms of music are tango, milonga and vals criollo	Tango, milonga and vals criollo are the most popular forms of music in what region?
In the early 1970s when the military junta took over power in Uruguay, art suffered in Montevideo	What suffered when the military junta took over power in Uruguay?
The Montevideo Cabildo was the seat of government during the colonial times of the Viceroyalty of the Río de la Plata	What was the seat of government during the colonial times of the Viceroyalty of the Rio de la Plata?
The Palacio Taranco is located in front of the Plaza Zabala, in the heart of Ciudad Vieja	Where is the Palacio Taranco located?
The National History Museum of Montevideo is located in the historical residence of General Fructuoso Rivera	The National History Museum of Montevideo is located where?
The Museo Torres García is located in the Old Town, and exhibits Joaquín Torres García's unusual portraits of historical icons and cubist paintings akin to those of Picasso and Braque	The Museo Torres Garcia is located where?
The National Museum of Visual Arts in Parque Rodó has Uruguay's largest collection of paintings	Where is the National Museum of Visual Arts located?
The Museo del Gaucho y de la Moneda, located in the Centro, has distinctive displays of the historical culture of Uruguay's gauchos, their horse gear, silver work and mate , gourds, and bombillas in odd designs	Where is the Museo de Guacho y de la Moneda located?
The center of traditional Uruguayan food and beverage in Montevideo is the Mercado del Puerto 	What is the center of traditional Uruguayan food and beverage in Montevideo?
The major annual festival is the annual Montevideo Carnaval which is part of the national festival of Carnival Week, celebrated throughout Uruguay, with central activities in the capital, Montevideo	What is the major annual festival in Montevideo?
Church and state are officially separated since 1916 in Uruguay	Church and state have been officially separated in Uruguay since what year?
Nuestra Señora del Sagrado Corazón , also known as Iglesia Punta Carretas , was built between 1917 and 1927 in the Romanesque Revival style	What does Nuestra Senora del Sagrado Corazon mean?
The University of the Republic is the country's largest and most important university, with a student body of 81,774, according to the census of 2007	What is the country's largest university? 
The process of founding the country's public university began on 11 June 1833 with the passage of a law proposed by Senator Dámaso Antonio Larrañaga	When did the process of funding the country's public university begin?
ORT Uruguay was first established as a non-profit organization in 1942, and was officially certified as a private university in September 1996, becoming the second private educational institution in the country to achieve that status	What is the largest private university in Uruguay?
The Montevideo Crandon Institute is an American School of missionary origin and the main Methodist educational institution in Uruguay	What is the main methodist educational institution in Uruguay?
The Christian Brothers of Ireland Stella Maris College is a private, co-educational, not-for-profit Catholic school located in the wealthy residential southeastern neighbourhood of Carrasco	Where is the Christian Brothers of Ireland Stella Maris College located?
Also in Carrasco is The British Schools of Montevideo, one of the oldest educational institutions in the country, established in 1908	Where is the British Schools of Montevideo located?
Located in Cordon, St	Where is St. Brendan's school located?
Estadio Centenario, the national football stadium in Parque Batlle, was opened in 1930 for the first World Cup, as well as to commemorate the centennial of Uruguay's first constitution	What is the national football stadium in Parque Batlle?
The Uruguayan Basketball League is headquartered in Montevideo and most of its teams are from the city, including Defensor Sporting, Biguá, Aguada, Goes, Malvín, Unión Atlética, and Trouville	Where is the Uruguayan Basketball League headquartered?
The Dirección Nacional de Transporte , part of the national Ministry of Transport and Public Works, is responsible for the organization and development of Montevideo's transport infrastructure	What does DNT stand for?
The State Railways Administration of Uruguay operates three commuter rail lines, namely the Empalme Olmos, San Jose and Florida	What does the AFE stand for?
The port on Montevideo Bay is one of the reasons the city was founded	What gives natural protection to ships in Montevideo?
Hospital Maciel is one of the oldest hospitals in Uruguay and stands on the block bounded by the streets Maciel, 25 de Mayo, Guaraní and Washington, with the main entrance at 25 de Mayo, 172	What is one of the oldest hospitals in Uruguay?
Hospital Vilardebó is the only psychiatric hospital in Montevideo	What is the only psychiatric hospital in Montevideo?
"These birds are most typically members of the superorder Galloanserae , especially the order Galliformes and the family Anatidae, in order Anseriformes, commonly known as ""waterfowl"" and including domestic ducks and domestic geese"	What types of birds are most commonly considered poultry?
The domestication of poultry took place several thousand years ago	How long have humans used domsticated poultry ?
The Encyclopædia Britannica lists the same bird groups but also includes guinea fowl and squabs 	What two addtional types of birds are listed in teh Encyclopedia Britanica as poultry?
Males, known as cocks, are usually larger, more boldly coloured, and have more exaggerated plumage than females 	What are male chickens called ?
By the mid-20th century, the poultry meat-producing industry was of greater importance than the egg-laying industry	When did the poultry business boom in the United States ?
"A bantam is a small variety of domestic chicken, either a miniature version of a member of a standard breed, or a ""true bantam"" with no larger counterpart"	What breed of chicken is named after a town in Java ?
Cockfighting is said to be the world's oldest spectator sport and may have originated in Persia 6,000 years ago	What is the termed used to define the game of fighting chickens called?
Males, known as drakes, are often larger than females and are differently coloured in some breeds	What do you call a male duck?
Clay models of ducks found in China dating back to 4000 BC may indicate the domestication of ducks took place there during the Yangshao culture	How long have ducks possibly been in domesticated domicile with humans?
The most common commercial breed in the United Kingdom and the United States is the Pekin duck, which can lay 200 eggs a year and can reach a weight of 3	What variety is the most common the the United States and the U.K.
The greylag goose was domesticated by the Egyptians at least 3000 years ago, and a different wild species, the swan goose , domesticated in Siberia about a thousand years later, is known as a Chinese goose	What other name is the swan goose know by ?
Domestic geese are much larger than their wild counterparts and tend to have thick necks, an upright posture, and large bodies with broad rear ends	do domestic and wild geese have the same apperearance ?
The modern domesticated turkey is descended from one of six subspecies of wild turkey found in the present Mexican states of Jalisco, Guerrero and Veracruz	How many species is the recent day turkey suspected to have embarked from?
Commercial turkeys are usually reared indoors under controlled conditions	What type of accomidations are domesticated turkey normally grown in?
These were the common quail , but modern domesticated flocks are mostly of Japanese quail which was probably domesticated as early as the 11th century AD in Japan	From what country do most domesticated quails today descend from ?
By 1940, the quail egg industry was flourishing, but the events of World War II led to the complete loss of quail lines bred for their song type, as well as almost all of those bred for egg production	When did the quail egg business begin to really become an economic driven industry?
Guinea fowl originated in southern Africa, and the species most often kept as poultry is the helmeted guineafowl 	What continent is the evolution of guinea fowl credited to?
A squab is the name given to the young of domestic pigeons that are destined for the table	What is the gourmet title given to pigeons ?
Worldwide, more chickens are kept than any other type of poultry, with over 50 billion birds being raised each year as a source of meat and eggs	What is the most popular type of poulty that is farmed?
Often, this is in large enclosures, but the birds have access to natural conditions and can exhibit their normal behaviours	What is the benefit to chickens of being in a free-range farming location?
4 lb)) in six weeks or less	How long does it take for an broiler raisedin an intensive environment very to reach optimum size?
In intensive systems, cannibalism, feather pecking and vent pecking can be common, with some farmers using beak trimming as a preventative measure	What are some of the major concerns with intensive breeding programs?
In many countries, national and regional poultry shows are held where enthusiasts exhibit their birds which are judged on certain phenotypical breed traits as specified by their respective breed standards	Is there a pplace where lovers of the chicken are able to see some of its best attributes ?
Poultry is the second most widely eaten type of meat in the world, accounting for about 30% of total meat production worldwide compared to pork at 38%	Jo w common is the consumtion of poultry in the world?
Other notable duck-producing countries in the Far East include Vietnam, Thailand, Malaysia, Myanmar, Indonesia and South Korea 	What other countries are important to the duck husbandry business?
"The meatiest parts of a bird are the flight muscles on its chest, called ""breast"" meat, and the walking muscles on the legs, called the ""thigh"" and ""drumstick"""	What is the most substantial part of a birds antomy as it apples to consupmtion og the meat?
The dark colour comes from the protein myoglobin, which plays a key role in oxygen uptake and storage within cells	Are there reasons for the dark meat that poultry has?
A 2011 study by the Translational Genomics Research Institute showed that 47% of the meat and poultry sold in United States grocery stores was contaminated with Staphylococcus aureus, and 52% of the bacteria concerned showed resistance to at least three groups of antibiotics	When is it possible for baccteria is enter into poultry before you get it home?
In general, avian influenza is a disease of birds caused by bird-specific influenza A virus that is not normally transferred to people; however, people in contact with live poultry are at the greatest risk of becoming infected with the virus and this is of particular concern in areas such as Southeast Asia, where the disease is endemic in the wild bird population and domestic poultry can become infected	Is the Avian flu a risk only to animals?
A problem with using eggs for this purpose is that people with egg allergies are unable to be immunised, but this disadvantage may be overcome as new techniques for cell-based rather than egg-based culture become available	What is the major difficulty faced in using poultry to cultivate vaccines?
Poultry meat and eggs provide nutritionally beneficial food containing protein of high quality	What is the nutitional value to humans of poultry and poultry products?
Outside of the Low Countries, it is the native language of the majority of the population of Suriname, and also holds official status in the Caribbean island nations of Aruba, Curaçao and Sint Maarten	"In what place with the word ""name"" in it do most people speak Dutch?"
Dutch is one of the closest relatives of both German and English and is said to be roughly in between them	Which two languages does Dutch most closely resemble?
While Dutch generally refers to the language as a whole, Belgian varieties are sometimes collectively referred to as Flemish	What are variations on Dutch used in Belgium sometimes called?
It derived from the Old Germanic word theudisk, one of the first names ever used for the non-Romance languages of Western Europe, meaning of the people, that is, the native Germanic language	What Old Germanic term was used to describe the non-Romance languages that developed in Europe?
Until roughly the 16th century, speakers of all the varieties of the West Germanic languages from the mouth of the Rhine to the Alps had been accustomed to refer to their native speech as Dietsch, duyts or some other cognate of theudisk	In what century was a differentiation made to clear up confusion about West Germanic languages?
"Nederlands, the official Dutch word for ""Dutch"", did not become firmly established until the 19th century"	"Dutch people didn't have an officially established word for the ""Dutch"" language until what century?"
The term Nederduits, however introduced new confusion, since the non standardised dialects spoken in the north of Germany came to be known as Niederdeutsch as well, and thus the Duits reference in the name was dropped, leading to Nederlands as designation to refer to the Dutch language	What was the new word for Dutch that still caused some confusion with the language spoken in Germany?
Three Germanic dialects were originally spoken in the Low Countries: Frisian in the north and along the western coast; Saxon in the east ; and Franconian in the centre and south	How many different versions of a Germanic language were spoken in the Low Countries?
Within the Indo-European language tree, Dutch is grouped within the Germanic languages, which means it shares a common ancestor with languages such as English, German, and Scandinavian languages	Which language tree groups Dutch with English?
The Germanic languages are traditionally divided into three groups: West, East and North Germanic	Into how many groups are Germanic languages usually split?
A Frankish identity emerged and so did their Frankish or Franconian language	"What's another term for ""Frankish""?"
At more or less the same time the Ingvaeonic nasal spirant law led to the development of Old Saxon, Old Frisian and Old English 	What's another name for Old Frisian?
Attestations of Old Dutch sentences are extremely rare	Are written records of Old Dutch rare or common?
Old Dutch naturally evolved into Middle Dutch	What language did Middle Dutch come from?
A process of standardisation started in the Middle Ages, especially under the influence of the Burgundian Ducal Court in Dijon 	What court in Dijon prior to 1477 had a hand in standardizing Dutch?
In the Southern Netherlands developments were different	What was the old name for the geographical region that's now Belgium and Luxembourg?
Dutch belongs to its own West Germanic sub-group, West Low Franconian, paired with its sister language Limburgish, or East Low Franconian	"What's the ""cheesy"" name for East Low Franconian?"
In the east there is a Dutch Low Saxon dialect area, comprising the provinces of Groningen, Drenthe and Overijssel, and parts of the province of Gelderland as well	What dialect of Dutch is spoken in Drenthe?
Recent research by Geert Driessen shows that the use of dialects and regional languages among both Dutch adults and youth is in heavy decline	What organization researched the use of regional Dutch dialects and found their usage declining?
"no difference between ""held"" and ""geld"" "	"What's the Dutch word for ""money""?"
"In that language, the words ""ja"" and ""nee"" are also conjugated to the subject of the sentence"	"What's the West Flemish word for ""no""?"
West Flemish in particular has sometimes been considered a distinct variety	What Dutch dialect is so distinct that it's often considered a language variant?
Many native speakers of Dutch, both in Belgium and the Netherlands, assume that Afrikaans and West Frisian are dialects of Dutch but are considered separate and distinct from Dutch: a daughter language and a sister language, respectively	What dialect is considered a sister language to Dutch?
In Europe, Dutch is the majority language in the Netherlands and Belgium as well as a minority language in Germany and northern France's French Flanders, where it is in the ultimate stage of language death	What percentage of people in Belgium speak Dutch?
Outside of the Netherlands and Belgium, the dialect around the German town of Kleve both historically and genetically belongs to the Dutch language	What town in Germany has always had mostly Dutch speakers?
During the second half of the 19th century Dutch was banned from all levels of education by both Prussia and France and lost most of its functions as a cultural language	In what country other than France did Dutch lose most of it usage in the 19th century?
In French-speaking Belgium, over 300,000 pupils are enrolled in Dutch courses, followed by over 23,000 in the German states of Lower Saxony and North Rhine-Westphalia, and about 7,000 in the French region of Nord-Pas-de-Calais 	About how many students in Belgium are studying Dutch?
Despite the Dutch presence in Indonesia for almost 350 years, as the Asian bulk of the Dutch East Indies, the Dutch language has no official status there and the small minority that can speak the language fluently are either educated members of the oldest generation, or employed in the legal profession, as some legal codes are still only available in Dutch	For how long have there been Dutch speakers in Indonesia?
In the last quarter of the 19th century, however, a local elite gained proficiency in Dutch so as to meet the needs of expanding bureaucracy and business	Towards the end of what century did it become important for more people in Dutch colonies to speak Dutch?
After independence, Dutch was dropped as an official language and replaced by Malay	What became the official language of Indonesia after they declared their independence?
In Suriname today, Dutch is the sole official language, and over 60 percent of the population speaks it as a mother tongue	About what percentage of residents of Suriname speak Dutch?
In the United States, an almost extinct dialect of Dutch, Jersey Dutch, spoken by descendants of 17th-century Dutch settlers in Bergen and Passaic counties, was still spoken as late as 1921	What's the year that Jersey Dutch was last spoken, according to records?
"European Dutch remained the literary language until the start of the 1920s, when under pressure of Afrikaner nationalism the local ""African"" Dutch was preferred over the written, European-based standard"	In what decade did European Dutch yield to the local dialect in South Africa?
Both languages are still largely mutually intelligible, although this relation can in some fields be asymmetric, as it is easier for Dutch speakers to understand written Afrikaans than it is for Afrikaans speakers to understand written Dutch	Who has a more difficult time understanding the other's language: Dutch speakers or Afrikaans speakers?
It is the lingua franca in Namibia, where it is spoken natively in 11 percent of households	Which country has 11% of households who speak Afrikaans?
Dutch also retains full use of the velar fricatives that were present in Proto-Germanic, but lost or modified in many other Germanic languages	What sound does Dutch still use from Proto-Germanic that was phased out in other Germanic languages?
Voicing of pre-vocalic initial voiceless alveolar fricatives occurs, although less in Dutch than in German vs	Is the voicing of pre-vocalic initial voiceless alveolar fricatives more common in Dutch or German?
Vowel length is not always considered a distinctive feature in Dutch phonology, because it normally co-occurs with changes in vowel quality	What quality of Dutch vowels isn't usually recognized as distinctive?
Unique to the development of Dutch is the collaps of older ol/ul/al + dental into ol + dental, followed by vocalisation of pre-consonantal /l/ and after a short vowel, creating the diphthong /ɑu/ e	"What letter represents the sound native English speakers often use for Dutch names with ""ij"" or ""ei"" in them?"
The lowering of the diphthongs has long been current in many Dutch dialects, and is comparable to the English Great Vowel Shift, and the diphthongisation of long high vowels in Modern High German, which centuries earlier reached the state now found in Polder Dutch	What linguistic event in English could we parallel with the Dutch lowering of diphthongs?
"Instead, he argues, this development has been artificially frozen in an ""intermediate"" state by the standardisation of Dutch pronunciation in the 16th century, where lowered diphthongs found in rural dialects were perceived as ugly by the educated classes and accordingly declared substandard"	What word did Stroop use to describe the static stage of diphthong pronunciation?
Standard Dutch uses three genders to differentiate between natural gender and three when discerning grammatical gender	How many genders does standard Dutch use for both natural and grammatical gender?
The Dutch written grammar has simplified over the past 100 years: cases are now mainly used for the pronouns, such as ik , mij, me , mijn , wie , wiens , wier 	"What's the Dutch word for ""my""?"
These are usually remnants of cases (in this instance, the genitive case which is still used in German, cf	"What case no longer used in Dutch is still present in German phrases like ""Der Herr des Hauses""?"
"In an interrogative main clause the usual word order is: conjugated verb followed by subject; other verbs in final position: ""Kun jij je pen niet vinden"	In what type of Dutch clause does the subject usually follow the conjugated verb?
In Dutch, the diminutive is not merely restricted to nouns and exist in numerals , pronouns , verbal particles , and even prepositions 	"What word do Dutch speakers use for what we call a ""shotgun marriage""?"
"""small flower""), but bloemetje (lit"	"Which diminutive of ""bloem"" means a ""bouquet""?"
Like in English, Dutch has generalised the dative over the accusative case for all pronouns, e	What language besides Dutch uses the dative case instead of the accusative for pronouns?
Like most Germanic languages, Dutch forms noun compounds, where the first noun modifies the category given by the second 	"How would a Dutch speaker say ""doghouse""?"
Dutch vocabulary is predominantly Germanic in origin, with an additional share of loanwords of 20%	What percentage of loanwords are present in Dutch vocabulary?
Dutch uses one additional character beyond the standard alphabet, the digraph IJ	How many extra characters does Dutch have in addition to the standard alphabet?
Originally known as Buckingham House, the building at the core of today's palace was a large townhouse built for the Duke of Buckingham in 1703 on a site that had been in private ownership for at least 150 years	What was Buckingham Palace orginally known as?
King Edward VII oversaw a partial redecoration in a Belle Époque cream and gold colour scheme	What colors were added in the partial redecoration overseen by King Edward VII?
The marshy ground was watered by the river Tyburn, which still flows below the courtyard and south wing of the palace	Which river runs underneath the palace?
Eventually, in the late 17th century, the freehold was inherited from the property tycoon Sir Hugh Audley by the great heiress Mary Davies	Which property tycoon inherited the property in the late 17th century?
Possibly the first house erected within the site was that of a Sir William Blake, around 1624	Who built the first house on the site?
The house which forms the architectural core of the palace was built for the first Duke of Buckingham and Normanby in 1703 to the design of William Winde	In what year did William Winde design the house which forms the core of the palace?
After his accession to the throne in 1820, King George IV continued the renovation with the idea in mind of a small, comfortable home	What did King George IV originally want the structure to be?
Buckingham Palace finally became the principal royal residence in 1837, on the accession of Queen Victoria, who was the first monarch to reside there; her predecessor William IV had died before its completion	Who was the first monarch to reside at Buckingham Palace?
By 1847, the couple had found the palace too small for court life and their growing family, and consequently the new wing, designed by Edward Blore, was built by Thomas Cubitt, enclosing the central quadrangle	Who designed the new wing for the palace in 1847?
Before Prince Albert's death, the palace was frequently the scene of musical entertainments, and the greatest contemporary musicians entertained at Buckingham Palace	The palace frequently hosted which type of events prior to the death of Prince Albert?
Widowed in 1861, the grief-stricken Queen withdrew from public life and left Buckingham Palace to live at Windsor Castle, Balmoral Castle and Osborne House	When year did Prince Albert die?
There are 775 rooms, including 19 state rooms, 52 principal bedrooms, 188 staff bedrooms, 92 offices, and 78 bathrooms	How many principle bedrooms does the palace have?
Directly underneath the State Apartments is a suite of slightly less grand rooms known as the semi-state apartments	Which rooms are used for less formal entertaining such as luncheons or private audiences?
Between 1847 and 1850, when Blore was building the new east wing, the Brighton Pavilion was once again plundered of its fittings	Where did many of the fittings for the new east wing come from?
At the centre of this wing is the famous balcony with the Centre Room behind its glass doors	Which room has the famous balcony used by the royals?
They are allocated a large suite of rooms known as the Belgian Suite, situated at the foot of the Minister's Staircase, on the ground floor of the north-facing Garden Wing	Where do foreign heads of stay usually stay in Buckingham Palace?
Thus, Buckingham Palace is a symbol and home of the British monarchy, an art gallery and a tourist attraction	Aside from being the home of the monarchy and a tourist attraction, what else is Buckingham Palace known for?
The palace, like Windsor Castle, is owned by the Crown Estate	Buckingham Palace is actually owned by whom?
Today, there is no official dress code	What is the official dress code today at Buckingham Palace?
Court presentations of aristocratic young ladies to the monarch took place at the palace from the reign of Edward VII	Under whose reign did court presentations of young aristocratic ladies take place?
Investitures, which include the conferring of knighthoods by dubbing with a sword, and other awards take place in the palace's Ballroom, built in 1854	Where do Investitures take place?
State banquets also take place in the Ballroom; these formal dinners are held on the first evening of a state visit by a foreign head of state	Where do State Banquets take place?
Adjacent to the palace is the Royal Mews, also designed by Nash, where the royal carriages, including the Gold State Coach, are housed	Where is the Gold State Coach housed?
In 1901 the accession of Edward VII saw new life breathed into the palace	In what year did Edward VII ascend to the throne?
The last major building work took place during the reign of King George V when, in 1913, Sir Aston Webb redesigned Blore's 1850 East Front to resemble in part Giacomo Leoni's Lyme Park in Cheshire	Under whose reign did the last major building works take place?
During World War I, the palace, then the home of King George V and Queen Mary, escaped unscathed	Who lived at Buckingham Palace during WWI?
During World War II, the palace was bombed nine times, the most serious and publicised of which resulted in the destruction of the palace chapel in 1940	How many times was the palace bombed in WWII?
On 15 September 1940, known as the Battle of Britain Day, an RAF pilot, Ray Holmes of No	What is the date of the Battle of Britain Day?
An incandescent light bulb, incandescent lamp or incandescent light globe is an electric light with a wire filament heated to a high temperature, by passing an electric current through it, until it glows with visible light 	What type of energy makes an incandescent light bulb glow?
Incandescent bulbs are much less efficient than most other types of electric lighting; incandescent bulbs convert less than 5% of the energy they use into visible light, with standard light bulbs averaging about 2	Are incandescent bulbs more or less efficient than most electric lighting?
Some jurisdictions, such as the European Union, China, Canada and United States, are in the process of phasing out the use of incandescent light bulbs while others, including Colombia, Mexico, Cuba, Argentina, Brazil and Australia, have prohibited them already	What law did Australia make about incandescent light bulbs?
In 1872, Russian Alexander Lodygin invented an incandescent light bulb and obtained a Russian patent in 1874	Who patented an incandescent light bulb in Russia in 1874?
 On 18 December 1878, a lamp using a slender carbon rod was shown at a meeting of the Newcastle Chemical Society, and Swan gave a working demonstration at their meeting on 17 January 1879	Where did Joseph Swan demonstrate his lamp in January 1879?
Thomas Edison began serious research into developing a practical incandescent lamp in 1878	When did Edison begin research into incandescent lighting?
Albon Man, a New York lawyer, started Electro-Dynamic Light Company in 1878 to exploit his patents and those of William Sawyer	Who founded Electro-Dynamic Light Company?
"Lewis Latimer, employed at the time by Edison, developed an improved method of heat-treating carbon filaments which reduced breakage and allowed them to be molded into novel shapes, such as the characteristic ""M"" shape of Maxim filaments"	Who developed a heat-treating method that allowed carbon filaments to be molded into shapes?
On 13 December 1904, Hungarian Sándor Just and Croatian Franjo Hanaman were granted a Hungarian patent (No	Which inventors patented the tungsten filament lamp?
The radiant luminous efficacy is the ratio of the visible light flux emitted to the total power radiated over all wavelengths	What does the acronym LER refer to?
"Klipstein explains it this way: ""An ideal thermal radiator produces visible light most efficiently at temperatures around 6,300 °C "	At what temperature does a thermal radiator most efficiently produce light?
"White-balancing is still required to avoid too ""warm"" or ""cool"" colors, but this is a simple process that requires only the color temperature in Kelvin as input for modern, digital visual reproduction equipment such as video or still cameras unless it is completely automated"	What is the purpose of white-balancing?
There are many non-incandescent light sources, such as the fluorescent lamp, high-intensity discharge lamps and LED lamps, which have higher luminous efficiency, and some have been designed to be retrofitted in fixtures for incandescent lights	Do fluorescent lights have a higher or lower luminous efficiency than incandescents?
Some types of lamp, including incandescent and fluorescent, emit less light as they age; this may be an inconvenience, or may reduce effective lifetime due to lamp replacement before total failure	Do incandescent lights emit more, less, or the same amount of light as they age?
Since incandescent light bulbs use more energy than alternatives such as CFLs and LED lamps, many governments have introduced measures to ban their use, by setting minimum efficacy standards higher than can be achieved by incandescent lamps	Do incandescent light bulbs use more or less energy as compared to CFLs and LED lamps?
However, even though they contain mercury, the environmental performance of CFLs is much better than that of light bulbs, mostly because they consume much less energy and therefore strongly reduce the environmental impact of power production	Is the environmental performance of CFLs better or worse than that of incandescents?
"Prompted by legislation in various countries mandating increased bulb efficiency, new ""hybrid"" incandescent bulbs have been introduced by Philips"	Which company introduced hybrid incandescent bulbs?
Incandescent light bulbs consist of an air-tight glass enclosure with a filament of tungsten wire inside the bulb, through which an electric current is passed	What is the name of the air-tight glass enclosure in an incandescent bulb?
The coated glass bulbs have a white powdery substance on the inside called kaolin	What is the powdery substance in coated glass light bulbs?
Large lamps may have a screw base or a bayonet base 	What is the name for a base with one or more contacts at the tip and one at the shell?
It however introduces heat losses from the filament, by heat conduction and heat convection	What is a potential problem with the use of gas in a light bulb?
"In manufacturing the glass bulb, a type of ""ribbon machine"" is used"	What type of machine manufactures glass light bulbs.
The first successful light bulb filaments were made of carbon 	What material were the first light bulb filaments made from?
In 1902, the Siemens company developed a tantalum lamp filament	What company invented the tantalum light filament?
In 1906, the tungsten filament was introduced	When was the tungsten filament introduced?
The coiled-coil filament evaporates more slowly than a straight filament of the same surface area and light-emitting power	What is the advantage of a coiled-coil filament over a straight filament?
"Small variations in resistivity along the filament cause ""hot spots"" to form at points of higher resistivity; a variation of diameter of only 1% will cause a 25% reduction in service life"	"What is the negative effect of ""hot spots"" forming on the filament?"
While inert gas reduces filament evaporation, it also conducts heat from the filament, thereby cooling the filament and reducing efficiency	Why does inert gas reduce efficiency?
During ordinary operation, the tungsten of the filament evaporates; hotter, more-efficient filaments evaporate faster	What determines how fast a tungsten filament evaporates?
In a conventional lamp, the evaporated tungsten eventually condenses on the inner surface of the glass envelope, darkening it	What darkens a conventional bulb over its lifetime?
The equivalent of a drop of water distributed over 500,000 lamps will significantly increase darkening	How does water vapor inside a light bulb affect lamp darkening?
The halogen lamp reduces uneven evaporation of the filament and eliminates darkening of the envelope by filling the lamp with a halogen gas at low pressure, rather than an inert gas	Does the halogen bulp increase, reduce, or have no effect on filament evaporation?
A variation of the incandescent lamp did not use a hot wire filament, but instead used an arc struck on a spherical bead electrode to produce heat	What did an alternate version of the incandescent lamp substitute for a wire filament?
This is measured in watts and depends mainly on the resistance of the filament, which in turn depends mainly on the filament's length, thickness, and material	What principally determines the wattage of an incandescent bulb?
The actual resistance of the filament is temperature dependent	What determines the resistance of a filament?
The letters represent the shape of the bulb	What do the letters identify in a bulb shape designation?
General Electric introduced standard base sizes for tungsten incandescent lamps under the Mazda trademark in 1909	Which company introduced standard base sizes for incandescent lamps?
This means that a 5% reduction in operating voltage will more than double the life of the bulb, at the expense of reducing its light output by about 16%	What level of voltage reduction is required to double the life of an incandescent bulb?
"The ""Centennial Light"" is a light bulb that is accepted by the Guinness Book of World Records as having been burning almost continuously at a fire station in Livermore, California, since 1901"	"When did the ""Centennial Light"" begin burning?"
A 50-hour-life projection bulb, for instance, is designed to operate only 50 °C below that melting point	At what temperature does a typical 50-hour-life projection bulb operate?
Lower voltage lamps have a thicker filament, for the same power rating	How does filament size relate to voltage level?
They conclude that Edison's version was able to outstrip the others because of a combination of three factors: an effective incandescent material, a higher vacuum than others were able to achieve and a high resistance that made power distribution from a centralized source economically viable	What made power distribution economically viable in Edison's lamp?
Arsenal was the first club from the south of England to join The Football League, in 1893	What was the first football club from southern England to join The Football League?
In 1886, Woolwich munitions workers founded the club as Dial Square	What was the original name of the Arsenal team?
Arsenal Football Club was formed as Dial Square in 1886 by workers at the Royal Arsenal in Woolwich, south-east London, and were renamed Royal Arsenal shortly afterwards	What group from the munitions plant in Woolwich formed the Arsenal club?
Arsenal appointed Herbert Chapman as manager in 1925	What manager was appointed to lead Arsenal in 1925?
Arsenal began winning silverware again with the surprise appointment of club physiotherapist Bertie Mee as manager in 1966	When was Bertie Mee become manager of Arsenal?
Terry Neill was recruited by the Arsenal board to replace Bertie Mee on 9 July 1976 and at the age of 34 he became the youngest Arsenal manager to date	On what date was Bertie Mee replaced by Arsenal?
The return of former player George Graham as manager in 1986 brought a third period of glory	What former Arsenal player became manager in 1986?
The club's success in the late 1990s and first decade of the 21st century owed a great deal to the 1996 appointment of Arsène Wenger as manager	What manager in the late 1990s brought success to Arsenal?
As of July 2013, they were one of only five teams, the others being Manchester United, Blackburn Rovers, Chelsea, and Manchester City, to have won the Premier League since its formation in 1992	Including Arsenal, how many teams had won the Premier League up to 2013?
Arsenal reached the final of the 2007 and 2011 League Cups, losing 2–1 to Chelsea and Birmingham City respectively	What famous team defeated Arsenal for the League Cup in 2007?
Unveiled in 1888, Royal Arsenal's first crest featured three cannon viewed from above, pointing northwards, similar to the coat of arms of the Metropolitan Borough of Woolwich 	In what year did Arsenal first create a crest for the team?
"In 1949, the club unveiled a modernised crest featuring the same style of cannon below the club's name, set in blackletter, and above the coat of arms of the Metropolitan Borough of Islington and a scroll inscribed with the club's newly adopted Latin motto, Victoria Concordia Crescit ""victory comes from harmony"", coined by the club's programme editor Harry Homer"	What Latin motto was added to the crest in 1949?
The monogram theme was developed into an Art Deco-style badge on which the letters A and C framed a football rather than the letter F, the whole set within a hexagonal border	What style of logo did Chapman introduce in the 1930s?
In the 2011–12 season, Arsenal celebrated their 125th year anniversary	What celebration did Arsenal have in the 2011-12 season?
For much of Arsenal's history, their home colours have been bright red shirts with white sleeves and white shorts, though this has not always been the case	What has the color of the Arsenal home shirts been?
In 1933, Herbert Chapman, wanting his players to be more distinctly dressed, updated the kit, adding white sleeves and changing the shade to a brighter pillar box red	What manager updated the players uniforms in 1933?
In 1909, Sparta Prague adopted a dark red kit like the one Arsenal wore at the time; in 1938, Hibernian adopted the design of the Arsenal shirt sleeves in their own green and white strip	What early team copied the Arsenal's red current color in 1909?
In the 1969–70 season, Arsenal introduced an away kit of yellow shirts with blue shorts	During what season were Arsenal's away colors white shirts and white or black shorts?
When Nike took over from Adidas as Arsenal's kit provider in 1994, Arsenal's away colours were again changed to two-tone blue shirts and shorts	What manufacturer became Arsenal's uniform provider in 1994?
Widely referred to as Highbury, Arsenal Stadium was the club's home from September 1913 until May 2006	When did Arsenal FC leave Highbury stadium?
Highbury could hold more than 60,000 spectators at its peak, and had a capacity of 57,000 until the early 1990s	What was the most people that Highbury stadium could host?
After considering various options, in 2000 Arsenal proposed building a new 60,361-capacity stadium at Ashburton Grove, since named the Emirates Stadium, about 500 metres south-west of Highbury	When did Arsenal offer a plan to build a new stadium at Ashburton Grove?
"Arsenal fans often refer to themselves as ""Gooners"", the name derived from the team's nickname, ""The Gunners"""	What is the common nickname of Arsenal supporters?
Like all major English football clubs, Arsenal have a number of domestic supporters' clubs, including the Arsenal Football Supporters' Club, which works closely with the club, and the Arsenal Independent Supporters' Association, which maintains a more independent line	What type of clubs does Arsenal have?
There have always been Arsenal supporters outside London, and since the advent of satellite television, a supporter's attachment to a football club has become less dependent on geography	What medium has added to the fan base of Arsenal?
Arsenal's longest-running and deepest rivalry is with their nearest major neighbours, Tottenham Hotspur; matches between the two are referred to as North London derbies	What football club is Arsenal's greatest rival?
The largest shareholder on the Arsenal board is American sports tycoon Stan Kroenke	What individual is the biggest shareholder on the Arsenal board?
Arsenal's parent company, Arsenal Holdings plc, operates as a non-quoted public limited company, whose ownership is considerably different from that of other football clubs	By what means does Arsenal operate as a company?
5m), ranking Arsenal seventh among world football clubs	Where does Deloitte Football Money League rank Arsenal in the world football clubs?
On 22 January 1927, their match at Highbury against Sheffield United was the first English League match to be broadcast live on radio	Why was Arsenal's match on 22 Jan. 1927 at Highbury a first?
They formed the backdrop to one of the earliest football-related films, The Arsenal Stadium Mystery 	In what film was Arsenal FC shown?
"Arsenal have often been stereotyped as a defensive and ""boring"" side, especially during the 1970s and 1980s; many comedians, such as Eric Morecambe, made jokes about this at the team's expense"	How have Arsenal players portrayed in media?
Arsenal's tally of 13 League Championships is the third highest in English football, after Manchester United and Liverpool , and they were the first club to reach 8 League Championships	How many League Championships has Arsenal won?
Arsenal Ladies are the women's football club affiliated to Arsenal	What is the name of the football club affiliated with Arsenal?
Physically, clothing serves many purposes: it can serve as protection from the elements, and can enhance safety during hazardous activities such as hiking and cooking	What can clothing provide during hazardous activities?
There is no easy way to determine when clothing was first developed, but some information has been inferred by studying lice	What isn't it easy to determine about clothing?
The most obvious function of clothing is to improve the comfort of the wearer, by protecting the wearer from the elements	What obvious improvement does clothing bestow upon the wearer?
Clothing can and has in history been made from a very wide variety of materials	What variety has there been in the materials of clothing throughout history?
Clothing protects against many things that might injure the uncovered human body	What does clothing protect from things which may injure it?
Humans have shown extreme inventiveness in devising clothing solutions to environmental hazards	What animal has shown extreme inventiveness in the clothing it has devised?
Although dissertations on clothing and its function appear from the 19th century as colonising countries dealt with new environments, concerted scientific research into psycho-social, physiological and other functions of clothing (e	What century do dissertation on clothing first appear from?
Trousers were once seen as exclusively male clothing, but are nowadays worn by both genders	What is an example of clothing that was once seen as exclusively for males?
In ancient Rome, for example, only senators could wear garments dyed with Tyrian purple	Who was allowed to wear gamrents dyed with Tyrian purple in ancient Rome?
According to archaeologists and anthropologists, the earliest clothing likely consisted of fur, leather, leaves, or grass that were draped, wrapped, or tied around the body	How was the earliest clothing kept on the body?
Scientists are still debating when people started wearing clothes	What group of people debate when humans stated wearing clothes?
Different cultures have evolved various ways of creating clothes out of cloth	Various cultures have come up with ways of making clothes from what?
By the early years of the 21st century, western clothing styles had, to some extent, become international styles	What had somewhat became an international style by the early 21st century?
Most sports and physical activities are practiced wearing special clothing, for practical, comfort or safety reasons	Safety reasons may be why someone wears this type of clothing.
The world of clothing is always changing, as new cultural influences meet technological innovations	Changes keep happening because new cultural stuff meets these type of innovations.
Though mechanization transformed most aspects of human industry by the mid-20th century, garment workers have continued to labor under challenging conditions that demand repetitive manual labor	What type of conditions do many garment works endure?
Outsourcing production to low wage countries like Bangladesh, China, India and Sri Lanka became possible when the Multi Fibre Agreement was abolished	The abolishing of the MFA made what possible?
The use of animal fur in clothing dates to prehistoric times	What have humans used for clothing since prehistoric times?
Many kinds of clothing are designed to be ironed before they are worn to remove wrinkles	What's the point of ironing clothing?
A resin used for making non-wrinkle shirts releases formaldehyde, which could cause contact dermatitis for some people; no disclosure requirements exist, and in 2008 the U	What releases formaldehyde?
In past times, mending was an art	What used to be considered an art, back in the day?
The Chicago Cubs are an American professional baseball team located on the North Side of Chicago, Illinois	What American professional baseball team is located on the North side of Chicago, IL? 
The team played its first games in 1876 as a founding member of the National League , eventually becoming known officially as the Chicago Cubs for the 1903 season	When did the Chicago Cubs play their first game?
In 1906, the franchise recorded a Major League record 116 wins and posted a modern-era record winning percentage of	What year did the cubs record a Major League record of 116 wins?
The Cubs began play as the Chicago White Stockings, joining the National League as a charter member	Who did the Cubs began play as?
After back-to-back pennants in 1880 and 1881, Hulbert died, and Spalding, who had retired to start Spalding sporting goods, assumed ownership of the club	Who assumed ownership of the Cubs after Hulbert died?
In 1902, Spalding, who by this time had revamped the roster to boast what would soon be one of the best teams of the early century, sold the club to Jim Hart	Who did Spalding sell the Cubs to in 1902?
In 1914, advertising executive Albert Lasker obtained a large block of the club's shares and before the 1916 season assumed majority ownership of the franchise	Who obtained a large block of the Cub's shares in 1914?
There were some historic moments for the Cubs as well; In 1930, Hack Wilson, one of the top home run hitters in the game, had one of the most impressive seasons in MLB history, hitting 56 home runs and establishing the current runs-batted-in record of 191	What year did Hack Wilson have one of the most impressive seasons in MLB history?
Due to the wartime travel restrictions, the first three games of the 1945 World Series were played in Detroit, where the Cubs won two games, including a one-hitter by Claude Passeau, and the final four were played at Wrigley	Why were the first three games of the 1945 World Series played in Detroit?
Longtime infielder/manager Phil Cavarretta, who had been a key player during the '45 season, was fired during spring training in 1954 after admitting the team was unlikely to finish above fifth place	Who had been a key player in the 1945 season?
In 1969 the Cubs, managed by Leo Durocher, built a substantial lead in the newly created National League Eastern Division by mid-August	Who managed the Cubs in 1969?
"After the core players of those teams started to move on, the 70s got worse for the team, and they became known as ""The Loveable Losers"	"During what decade did the Cubs become known as ""The Loveable Losers""?"
After over a dozen more subpar seasons, in 1981 the Cubs hired GM Dallas Green from Philadelphia to turn around the franchise	What year did the Cubs hire GM Dallas Green?
Green shored up the 1984 roster with a series of transactions	Who shored up the 1984 roster with a series of transactions?
The team's commitment to contend was complete when Green made a midseason deal on June 15 to shore up the starting rotation due to injuries to Rick Reuschel and Sanderson	When did Green make a deal to shore up the starting rotation?
"The shift in the Cubs' fortunes was characterized June 23 on the ""NBC Saturday Game of the Week"" contest against the St"	What contest shift the Cubs' Fortunes? 
In 1984, each league had two divisions, East and West	In what year did the league have two divisions? 
The confusion may stem from the fact that Major League Baseball did decide that, should the Cubs make it to the World Series, the American League winner would have home field advantage unless the Cubs hosted home games at an alternate site since the Cubs home field of Wrigley Field did not yet have lights	Why did the cubs need to host their home games at an alternative site?
In the NLCS, the Cubs easily won the first two games at Wrigley Field against the San Diego Padres	Who easily won the first two games in the NLCS?
In 1989, the first full season with night baseball at Wrigley Field, Don Zimmer's Cubs were led by a core group of veterans in Ryne Sandberg, Rick Sutcliffe and Andre Dawson, who were boosted by a crop of youngsters such as Mark Grace, Shawon Dunston, Greg Maddux, Rookie of the Year Jerome Walton, and Rookie of the Year Runner-Up Dwight Smith	What year was the first full season with night baseball at Wrigley Field?
The '98 season would begin on a somber note with the death of legendary broadcaster Harry Caray	What legendary broadcaster died in the '98 season?
Despite losing fan favorite Grace to free agency, and the lack of production from newcomer Todd Hundley, skipper Don Baylor's Cubs put together a good season in 2001	Who put together a good season for the Cubs in 2001?
On July 5, 2002 the Cubs promoted assistant general manager and player personnel director Jim Hendry to the General Manager position	When did the Cubs promote assistant general manager and player personnel director Jim Hendry?
Florida shut the Cubs out in Game 5, but young pitcher Mark Prior led the Cubs in Game 6 as they took a 3–0 lead into the 8th inning and it was at this point when a now-infamous incident took place	In what game did Florida shut the Cubs out?
In 2004, the Cubs were a consensus pick by most media outlets to win the World Series	What year did most media outlets pick the Cubs to win the World Series?
Despite the fact that the Cubs had won 89 games, this fallout was decidedly unlovable, as the Cubs traded superstar Sammy Sosa after he had left the season's final game early and then lied about it publicly	Who did the Cubs trade after leaving the final game early and lieing about it?
"After finishing last in the NL Central with 66 wins in 2006, the Cubs re-tooled and went from ""worst to first"" in 2007"	How many wins did the Cubs finish the NL Central with in 2006?
The offseason was dominated by three months of unsuccessful trade talks with the Orioles involving 2B Brian Roberts, as well as the signing of Chunichi Dragons star Kosuke Fukudome	What Chunichi Dragons start was signed to the Cubs in 2008?
The Ricketts family acquired a majority interest in the Cubs in 2009, ending the Tribune years	When did the Ricketts family acquire a majority interest in the Cubs?
Rookie Starlin Castro debuted in early May as the starting shortstop	Who debuted as the starting shortstop in early May 2010?
Despite trading for pitcher Matt Garza and signing free-agent slugger Carlos Peña, the Cubs finished the 2011 season 20 games under	How many games under .500 did the Cubs finish the 2011 season with?
Shortly before the trade deadline, the Cubs traded Matt Garza to the Texas Rangers for Mike Olt, C	Who did the Cubs trade to the Texas Rangers for Mike Olt, C.J. Edwards, Neil Ramirez, and Justin Grimm?
On November 2, 2014, the Cubs announced that Joe Maddon had signed a five-year contract to be the 54th manager in team history	When did the Cubs announce that Joe Maddon had signed a five-year contract to be the 54th manager?
On September 23, 1908, the Cubs and New York Giants were involved in a tight pennant race	When were the Cubs and New York Giants involved in a tight pennant race?
On October 1, 1932, in game three of the World Series between the Cubs and the New York Yankees, Babe Ruth allegedly stepped to the plate, pointed his finger to Wrigley Field's center field bleachers and hit a long home run to center	When was game three of the World Series between the Cubs and the New York Yankees?
Hack Wilson set a record of 56 home-runs and 190 runs-batted-in in 1930, breaking Lou Gehrig's MLB record of 176 RBI	When did Hack Wilson set a record of 56 home-runs and 190 runs-batted-in?
On April 25, 1976, at Dodger Stadium, father-and-son protestors ran into the outfield and tried to set fire to a U	When did protesters run into the outfield and try to set fire to the U.S. flag?
In June, 1998 Sammy Sosa exploded into the pursuit of Roger Maris' home run record	When did Sammy Sosa explode into pursuit of Roger Maris' home run record? 
On April 23, 2008, against the Colorado Rockies, the Cubs recorded the 10,000th regular-season win in their franchise's history dating back to the beginning of the National League in 1876	When did the Cubs record their 10,000 regular-season win?
In only his third career start, Kerry Wood struck out 20 batters against Houston on May 6, 1998	How many batters did Kerry Wood strike out against Houston?
The Chicago Cubs have not won a World Series championship since 1908, and have not appeared in the Fall Classic since 1945, although between their postseason appearance in 1984 and their most recent in 2015, they have made the postseason seven times	When was the last time the Chicago Cubs win a World Series championship?
On May 11, 2000, Glenallen Hill, facing Brewers starter Steve Woodard, became the first, and thus far only player, to hit a pitched ball onto the roof of a five-story residential building across Waveland Ave, beyond Wrigley Field's left field wall	Who was the first and only player to hit a pitched ball onto the roof of a five-story building across Waveland Ave?
Before signing a developmental agreement with the Kane County Cougars in 2012, the Cubs had a Class A minor league affiliation on two occasions with the Peoria Chiefs 	When did the Cubs sign a developmental agreement with the Kane County Cougars?
The Chicago White Stockings, , began spring training in Hot Springs, Arkansas in 1886	Who began spring training in Hot Springs, Arkansas in 1886?
The Cubs' current spring training facility is located in Sloan Park in |Mesa, Arizona, where they play in the Cactus League	Where is the Cubs' current spring training facility located?
In addition to Mesa, the club has held spring training in Hot Springs, Arkansas , New Orleans ; Champaign, Illinois ; Los Angeles , Santa Monica, California ; French Lick, Indiana ; Tampa, Florida ; Pasadena, California ; Santa Catalina Island, California ; Rendezvous Park in Mesa ; Blair Field in Long Beach, California ; and Scottsdale, Arizona 	Where is Rendezvous Park?
I	Between what years did the club hold spring training in Scottsdale, Arizona?
The curious location on Catalina Island stemmed from Cubs owner William Wrigley Jr	Who had a majority interest in Cataline island in 1919?
The former location in Mesa is actually the second HoHoKam Park; the first was built in 1976 as the spring-training home of the Oakland Athletics who left the park in 1979	Where was the former location in Mesa?
Jack Brickhouse manned the Cubs radio and especially the TV booth for parts of five decades, the 34-season span from 1948 to 1981	Who manned the Cubs radio and TV booth for parts of five decades?
Harry Caray's stamp on the team is perhaps even deeper than that of Brickhouse, although his 17-year tenure, from 1982 to 1997, was half as long	How long was Harry Caray's tenure with the Cubs?
Caray had lively discussions with commentator Steve Stone, who was hand-picked by Harry himself, and producer Arne Harris	Who did Harry hand-pick himself?
In 1981, after 6 decades under the Wrigley family, the Cubs were purchased by Tribune Company for $20,500,000	What company purchased the Cubs in 1981?
"""Baseball's Sad Lexicon,"" also known as ""Tinker to Evers to Chance"" after its refrain, is a 1910 baseball poem by Franklin Pierce Adams"	"What was ""Baseball's Sad Lexicon"" also known as?"
The official Cubs team mascot is a young bear cub, named Clark, described by the team's press release as a young and friendly Cub	What is the official Cubs team mascot?
"The Cubs had no official physical mascot prior to Clark, though a man in a 'polar bear' looking outfit, called ""The Bear-man"" , which was mildly popular with the fans, paraded the stands briefly in the early 1990s"	"What did ""The Bear-man"" wear as an outfit?"
"Another unofficial but much more well-known mascot is Ronnie ""Woo Woo"" Wickers who is a longtime fan and local celebrity in the Chicago area"	What is another unofficial well-known mascot?
Located in Chicago's Lake View neighborhood, Wrigley Field sits on an irregular block bounded by Clark and Addison Streets and Waveland and Sheffield Avenues	Where is Wrigley Field located?
In 2013, Tom Ricketts and team president Crane Kenney unveiled plans for a five-year, $575 million privately funded renovation of Wrigley Field	When did Tom Ricketts and Crane Kenney unveil plans for a five-year funded renovation of Wrigley Field?
"The ""Bleacher Bums"" is a name given to fans, many of whom spend much of the day heckling, who sit in the bleacher section at Wrigley Field"	What nickname has been given to the fans who sit in the bleacher section at Wrigley Field?
In 1975, a group of Chicago Cubs fans based in Washington, D	What year did a group of Chicago Cubs fans form the Emil Verban Society?
"During the summer of 1969, a Chicago studio group produced a single record called ""Hey Hey"	"What year was the single ""Hey Hey! Holy Mackerel! "" produced? "
An album entitled Take Me Out to a Cubs Game was released in 2008	When was Take Me Out to a Cubs game released? 
The 1989 film Back to the Future Part II depicts the Chicago Cubs defeating a baseball team from Miami in the 2015 World Series, ending the longest championship drought in all four of the major North American professional sports leagues	What film depicts the Chicago Cubs defeating a baseball team from Miami in the 2015 World Series?
The Korean War was started when North Korea invaded South Korea	In what year did the Korean War begin?
Korea was ruled by Japan from 1910 until the closing days of World War II	What nation ruled Korea in 1910?
After the first two months of the conflict, South Korean forces were on the point of defeat, forced back to the Pusan Perimeter	At the beginning of the conflict, where were South Korean forces pushed back to?
"Aggression and Aid Korea"" , although the term ""Chaoxian War"" is also used in unofficial contexts, along with the term ""Korean Conflict"" more commonly used in regions such as Hong Kong and Macau"	What did Macau and Hong Kong call the Korean War?
Korea was considered to be part of the Empire of Japan as an industrialized colony along with Taiwan, and both were part of the Greater East Asia Co-Prosperity Sphere	Along with Taiwan, what empire was Korea considered to be apart of?
Japanese forces in Korea increased from 46,000 soldiers in 1941 to 300,000 in 1945	How many Japanese forces were in Korea in 1945?
Bonesteel III were tasked with dividing the Korean Peninsula into Soviet and U	What job were Colonels Dean Rusk and Charles H. Bonesteel III given?
Appointed as military governor, General Hodge directly controlled South Korea as head of the United States Army Military Government in Korea 	What was General Hodge appointed the head of?
Civil disorder spread throughout the country in what became known as the Autumn uprising	What is the civil disobedience caused by the railroad worker's strike called?
government decided to hold an election under United Nations auspices with the aim of creating an independent Korea	What did the Joint Commission's lack of progress cause the US government to do?
The resultant South Korean government promulgated a national political constitution on 17 July 1948, and elected Syngman Rhee as President on 20 July 1948	When was South Korea's constitution created?
While the Communists were struggling for supremacy in Manchuria, they were supported by the North Korean government with matériel and manpower	Who supported the Chinese Communists during the civil war in Manchuria?
The North Korean contributions to the Chinese Communist victory were not forgotten after the creation of the People's Republic of China in 1949	What country helped North Korea invade South Korea?
After the formation of the People's Republic of China in 1949, the Chinese government named the Western nations, led by the United States, as the biggest threat to its national security	What country did China see as a threat to the People's Republic of China?
The Soviets had detonated their first nuclear bomb in September 1949; American soldiers had fully withdrawn from Korea; the Americans had not intervened to stop the communist victory in China, and Stalin calculated that the Americans would be even less willing to fight in Korea—which had seemingly much less strategic significance	When did the Soviets first detonate a nuclear bomb?
In April 1950, Stalin gave Kim permission to invade the South under the condition that Mao would agree to send reinforcements if they became needed	Who had to agree to send reinforcements for Stalin to give permission for the invasion of Korea?
Soviet generals with extensive combat experience from the Second World War were sent to North Korea as the Soviet Advisory Group	Who did the Soviets send to North Korea?
On 7 June 1950, Kim Il-sung called for a Korea-wide election on 5–8 August 1950 and a consultative conference in Haeju on 15–17 June 1950	Who called for Korean elections in 1950?
While these preparations were underway in the North, there were frequent clashes along the 38th parallel, especially at Kaesong and Ongjin, many initiated by the South	Who primarily initiated the clashes along the 38th parallel?
At dawn on Sunday, 25 June 1950, the Korean People's Army crossed the 38th parallel behind artillery fire	Who provoked a conflict by crossing the 38th parallel?
On 27 June, Rhee evacuated from Seoul with some of the government	Who, along with members of the South Korean government, fled South Korea?
One facet of the changing attitude toward Korea and whether to get involved was Japan	What country was believed to provide a counterbalance to China's and the Soviet Union's involvement in Korea?
A major consideration was the possible Soviet reaction in the event that the US intervened	What was the Truman administration concerned about that was preventing them from getting involved in the Korean conflict?
On 25 June 1950, the United Nations Security Council unanimously condemned the North Korean invasion of the Republic of Korea, with UN Security Council Resolution 82	Who condemned the actions of North Korea?
The Soviet Union challenged the legitimacy of the war for several reasons	What country challenged the legitimacy of the Korean War?
By mid-1950, North Korean forces numbered between 150,000 and 200,000 troops, organized into 10 infantry divisions, one tank division, and one air force division, with 210 fighter planes and 280 tanks, who captured scheduled objectives and territory, among them Kaesong, Chuncheon, Uijeongbu, and Ongjin	How many infantry divisions did N. Korea have engaged in the war?
In contrast, the ROK Army defenders were relatively unprepared and ill-equipped	What was the problem with the ROK Army?
Secretary of State Dean Acheson informed President Truman that the North Koreans had invaded South Korea	Which Secretary of State did President Truman hold discussions about how the US would respond to the invasion of South Korea?
The impact of the Truman administration's defense budget cutbacks were now keenly felt, as American troops fought a series of costly rearguard actions	Why was the US not able to provide an adequate response to the Korean invasion?
Acting on State Secretary Acheson's recommendation, President Truman ordered General MacArthur to transfer matériel to the Army of the Republic of Korea while giving air cover to the evacuation of U	What general provided material to the Republic of Korea and evacuated US nationals?
The Battle of Osan, the first significant American engagement of the Korean War, involved the 540-soldier Task Force Smith, which was a small forward element of the 24th Infantry Division which had been flown in from Japan	What battle is considered the US's first significant fight in the Korean War?
In their southward advance, the KPA purged the Republic of Korea's intelligentsia by killing civil servants and intellectuals	How did the KPA hurt the Republic of Korea's intellectual core?
Lei concluded that MacArthur would most likely attempt a landing at Incheon	Where did North Korea predict that MacArthur would enter Korea?
Army withstood KPA attacks meant to capture the city at the Naktong Bulge, P'ohang-dong, and Taegu	Which army was trying to capture Teague and the Naktong Bulge?
mainland from the port of San Francisco to the port of Pusan, the largest Korean port	Where in the United States was the tank battalion located?
To relieve the Pusan Perimeter, General MacArthur recommended an amphibious landing at Inchon , near Seoul and well over 100 miles behind the KPA lines	Why did General MacArthur suggest an amphibious landing at Inchon?
Soon after the war began, General MacArthur had begun planning a landing at Incheon, but the Pentagon opposed him	Who initially opposed General MacArthur's landing plan?
"Lynch), 3rd Battalion, 7th Cavalry Regiment, and two 70th Tank Battalion units effected the ""Pusan Perimeter Breakout"" through 106"	What was the 106 mile push through enemy territory called?
Zakharov to Korea to advise Kim Il-sung to halt his offensive around the Pusan perimeter and to redeploy his forces to defend Seoul	Why did Kim Il-Sung redeploy his military troops?
On 27 September, Stalin convened an emergency session of the Politburo, in which he condemned the incompetence of the KPA command and held Soviet military advisers responsible for the defeat	What emergency session was called by Stalin?
"On 27 September, MacArthur received the top secret National Security Council Memorandum 81/1 from Truman reminding him that operations north of the 38th parallel were authorized only if ""at the time of such operation there was no entry into North Korea by major Soviet or Chinese Communist forces, no announcements of intended entry, nor a threat to counter our operations militarily"	What memorandum stated the circumstances for engaging in conflict above the 38th parallel?
On 30 September, Zhou Enlai warned the United States that China was prepared to intervene in Korea if the United States crossed the 38th parallel	Who vowed to intervene if the US was to engage in conflict North of the 38th parallel?
MacArthur made a statement demanding the KPA's unconditional surrender	Who issued a statement calling for North Korea's unconditional surrender?
On 27 June 1950, two days after the KPA invaded and three months before the Chinese entered the war, President Truman dispatched the United States Seventh Fleet to the Taiwan Strait, to prevent hostilities between the Nationalist Republic of China and the People's Republic of China 	What did President Truman do to prevent hostilities between the People's Republic of China and Taiwan?
In a series of emergency meetings that lasted from 2–5 October, Chinese leaders debated whether to send Chinese troops into Korea	What was discussed at the emergency talks held by Chinese leaders?
In order to enlist Stalin's support, Zhou and a Chinese delegation left for Moscow on 8 October, arriving there on 10 October at which point they flew to Stalin's home at the Black Sea	Where did Zhou travel with a Chinese delegation to convince Stalin to support China?
UN aerial reconnaissance had difficulty sighting PVA units in daytime, because their march and bivouac discipline minimized aerial detection	What made seeing the PVA units difficult during the day?
On 15 October, after moderate KPA resistance, the 7th Cavalry Regiment and Charlie Company, 70th Tank Battalion captured Namchonjam city	Who did not capture the city of Namchonjam?
On 15 October 1950, President Truman and General MacArthur met at Wake Island in the mid-Pacific Ocean	Where did President Truman and General MacArthur meet on October 15, 1950?
After secretly crossing the Yalu River on 19 October, the PVA 13th Army Group launched the First Phase Offensive on 25 October, attacking the advancing UN forces near the Sino-Korean border	Who initiated the First Phase offensive?
Eighth Army's retreat was made possible because of the Turkish Brigade's successful, but very costly, rear-guard delaying action near Kunuri that slowed the PVA attack for two days 	Whose actions helped the Eighth Army be able to retreat?
UN morale hit rock bottom when commanding General Walton Walker of the U	Whose death was not a direct casualty of the war?
The SS Meredith Victory was noted for evacuating 14,000 refugees, the largest rescue operation by a single ship, even though it was designed to hold 12 passengers	What was the name of the ship responsible for undertaking the largest rescue operation by a single ship?
Eighth Army on 26 December, the PVA and the KPA launched their Third Phase Offensive on New Year's Eve of 1950	What is the Third Phase Offensive also known as?
The PVA had outrun its logistics capability and thus were unable to press on beyond Seoul as food, ammunition, and matériel were carried nightly, on foot and bicycle, from the border at the Yalu River to the three battle lines	Why was the PVA unable to advance beyond Seoul?
In early February, the South Korean 11th Division ran the operation to destroy the guerrillas and their sympathizer citizens in Southern Korea	What to be achieved by the Sancheong-Hamyang and Geochang massacres in South Korea?
In the last two weeks of February 1951, Operation Roundup was followed by Operation Killer, carried out by the revitalized Eighth Army	What Operation was initiated after the successful Operation Roundup?
Apparently impressed by the Chinese war effort, Stalin finally agreed to supply two air force divisions, three anti-aircraft divisions, and six thousand trucks	Why did Stalin send two air forces divisions and other assistance to the Chinese?
On 11 April 1951, Commander-in-Chief Truman relieved the controversial General MacArthur, the Supreme Commander in Korea	Who was relieved from his duties as Commander in Korea?
General Ridgway was appointed Supreme Commander, Korea; he regrouped the UN forces for successful counterattacks, while General James Van Fleet assumed command of the U	Who was appointed Supreme Commander in Korea after the removal of General MacArthur?
The Chinese counterattacked in April 1951, with the Fifth Phase Offensive, also known as the Chinese Spring Offensive, with three field armies 	What was the Fifth Phase of the Chinese counter initiative called?
Large-scale bombing of North Korea continued, and protracted armistice negotiations began 10 July 1951 at Kaesong	Where did armistice negotiations occur?
The principal battles of the stalemate include the Battle of Bloody Ridge , the Battle of the Punchbowl , the Battle of Heartbreak Ridge , the Battle of Old Baldy , the Battle of White Horse , the Battle of Triangle Hill , the Battle of Hill Eerie , the sieges of Outpost Harry , the Battle of the Hook , the Battle of Pork Chop Hill , and the Battle of Kumsong 	When was the Battle of White Horse?
Chinese troops suffered from deficient military equipment, serious logistical problems, overextended communication and supply lines, and the constant threat of UN bombers	Did the UN troops or Chinese troops experience more war casualties?
In the months after the Shenyang conference Peng Dehuai went to Beijing several times to brief Mao and Zhou about the heavy casualties suffered by Chinese troops and the increasing difficulty of keeping the front lines supplied with basic necessities	Who believed that neither side would see a victory at the end of the Korean War?
The on-again, off-again armistice negotiations continued for two years, first at Kaesong, on the border between North and South Korea, and then at the neighbouring village of Panmunjom	How long did the armistice talks last?
With the United Nations' acceptance of India's proposed Korean War armistice, the KPA, the PVA, and the UN Command ceased fire with the battle line approximately at the 38th parallel	Who approved the Korean War armistice that officially declared a ceasefire?
The old Korean capital city of Kaesong, site of the armistice negotiations, originally was in pre-war South Korea, but now is part of North Korea	Where is the capital city of Kaesong now located?
After the war, Operation Glory was conducted from July to November 1954, to allow combatant countries to exchange their dead	What was the point of Operation Glory?
After a new wave of UN sanctions, on 11 March 2013, North Korea claimed that it had invalidated the 1953 armistice	Why is North Korea insisting that the 1953 armistice was violated?
Interdiction by ground attack aircraft was the only means of slowing the advancing Korean armor	What form of attack was an effective measure of slowing Korean armor?
Because neither Korea had a significant navy, the Korean War featured few naval battles	Why were naval skirmishes not really seen in the Korean War?
During most of the war, the UN navies patrolled the west and east coasts of North Korea, sinking supply and ammunition ships and denying the North Koreans the ability to resupply from the sea	What type of ships did the US spend most of its time sinking?
Fearful of confronting the United States directly, the Soviet Union denied involvement of their personnel in anything other than an advisory role, but air combat quickly resulted in Soviet pilots dropping their code signals and speaking over the wireless in Russian	Who denied having anything more than an advisory role in the Korean War?
The USAF countered the MiG-15 by sending over three squadrons of its most capable fighter, the F-86 Sabre	What plane did the US send to Korea to counter the power of the MiG-15?
Copyright infringement is the use of works protected by copyright law without permission, infringing certain exclusive rights granted to the copyright holder, such as the right to reproduce, distribute, display or perform the protected work, or to make derivative works	What are the rights of a content creator that has their work protected?
Copyright infringement disputes are usually resolved through direct negotiation, a notice and take down process, or litigation in civil court	How are disputes resolved for small scale infringement?
The terms piracy and theft are often associated with copyright infringement	What terms are often linked to people who illegally use or distribute content that is not their own?
Prior to the Statute of Anne in 1710, the Stationers' Company of London in 1557, received a Royal Charter giving the company a monopoly on publication and tasking it with enforcing the charter	What did the Royal Charter give to the Stationers' Company of London?
In copyright law, infringement does not refer to theft of physical objects that take away the owner's possession, but an instance where a person exercises one of the exclusive rights of the copyright holder without authorization	When you are accused theft as it relates to copyright law, you are exercising exclusive rights without what?
Sometimes only partial compliance with license agreements is the cause	What is a possible cause of copyright infringement?
"Cara Cusumano, director of the Tribeca Film Festival, stated in April 2014: ""Piracy is less about people not wanting to pay and more about just wanting the immediacy – people saying, 'I want to watch Spiderman right now' and downloading it"""	What did Cara Cusumano say about piracy in 2014 that people want?
"In response to Cusumano's perspective, Screen Producers Australia executive director Matt Deaner clarified the motivation of the film industry: ""Distributors are usually wanting to encourage cinema-going as part of this process and restrict the immediate access to online so as to encourage the maximum number of people to go to the cinema"	Who made clear the motivations of the filmmakers?
In a study published in the Journal of Behavioural and Experimental Economics, and reported on in early May 2014, researchers from the University of Portsmouth in the UK discussed findings from examining the illegal downloading behavior of 6,000 Finnish people, aged seven to 84	What researchers conducted a study in the early part of May 2014?
According to the same study, even though digital piracy inflicts additional costs on the production side of media, it also offers the main access to media goods in developing countries	Even though piracy adds costs to production, what else is offered to developing countries?
There have been instances where a country's government bans a movie, resulting in the spread of copied videos and DVDs	What happens when a country bans a movie?
, copyright infringement is sometimes confronted via lawsuits in civil court, against alleged infringers directly, or against providers of services and software that support unauthorized copying	In the U.S., where is copyright infringement contested?
In some jurisdictions, copyright or the right to enforce it can be contractually assigned to a third party which did not have a role in producing the work	Who can be assigned a contract to enforce a copyright in some jurisdictions?
"copyright law was added in 1897, which established a misdemeanor penalty for ""unlawful performances and representations of copyrighted dramatic and musical compositions"" if the violation had been ""willful and for profit"	When was the first criminal part of copyright law in the U.S. added?
535 was a case decided by the United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts which ruled that, under the copyright and cybercrime laws effective at the time, committing copyright infringement for non-commercial motives could not be prosecuted under criminal copyright law	When was United States v. LaMacchia contested?
The United States No Electronic Theft Act , a federal law passed in 1997, in response to LaMacchia, provides for criminal prosecution of individuals who engage in copyright infringement under certain circumstances, even when there is no monetary profit or commercial benefit from the infringement	What federal law did the United States pass in 1997, in response to the LaMacchia Loophole?
The personal copying exemption in the copyright law of EU member states stems from the EU Copyright Directive of 2001, which is generally devised to allow EU members to enact laws sanctioning making copies without authorization, as long as they are for personal, noncommerical use	What directive in 2001 let European Union countries to enact laws that allowed making copies for personal use?
In some countries, the personal copying exemption explicitly requires that the content being copied was obtained legitimately – i	What does the personal copying exemption explicitly need?
"DMCA, the WIPO Copyright and Performances and Phonograms Treaties Implementation Act has provisions that prevent persons from ""circumvent a technological measure that effectively controls access to a work"""	What is the U.S. law that uses the WIPO Copyright as it's Title I?
In addition, intermediaries are now also generally understood to include Internet portals, software and games providers, those providing virtual information such as interactive forums and comment facilities with or without a moderation system, aggregators of various kinds, such as news aggregators, universities, libraries and archives, web search engines, chat rooms, web blogs, mailing lists, and any website which provides access to third party content through, for example, hyperlinks, a crucial element of the World Wide Web	What includes Internet portals, software and games?
Early court cases focused on the liability of Internet service providers for hosting, transmitting or publishing user-supplied content that could be actioned under civil or criminal law, such as libel, defamation, or pornography	Who did early court cases focus on?
Digital Millennium Copyright Act and the European E-Commerce Directive provide online intermediaries with limited statutory immunity from liability for copyright infringement	What law enacted in the U.S. in 1998 gave online intermediaries limited statutory immunity?
These types of intermediaries do not host or transmit infringing content, themselves, but may be regarded in some courts as encouraging, enabling or facilitating infringement by users	What do certain type of intermediaries NOT do?
Nevertheless, whether and to what degree any of these types of intermediaries have secondary liability is the subject of ongoing litigation	What is the legal status of secondary liability?
"Article 10 of the Berne Convention mandates that national laws provide for limitations to copyright, so that copyright protection does not extend to certain kinds of uses that fall under what the treaty calls ""fair practice,"" including but not limited to minimal quotations used in journalism and education"	What does Article 10 of the Berne Convention call certain uses that limit copyright?
Another example is the practice of compulsory licensing, which is where the law forbids copyright owners from denying a license for certain uses of certain kinds of works, such as compilations and live performances of music	What is it called when a law disallows copyright owners from denying a license for certain uses?
In Europe, the copyright infringement case Public Relations Consultants Association Ltd v Newspaper Licensing Agency Ltd had two prongs; one concerned whether a news aggregator service infringed the copyright of the news generators; the other concerned whether the temporary web cache created by the web browser of a consumer of the aggregator's service, also infringed the copyright of the news generators	Where was the Public Relations Consultants Association Ltd v Newspaper Licensing Agency Ltd case contested?
In order to qualify for protection, a work must be an expression with a degree of originality, and it must be in a fixed medium, such as written down on paper or recorded digitally	If a work must include a degree of originality, what else must it contain to be protected?
Likewise, courts may require computer software to pass an Abstraction-Filtration-Comparison test to determine if it is too abstract to qualify for protection, or too dissimilar to an original work to be considered infringing	What test might courts require software to pass to determine if it is protected or infringing?
Corporations and legislatures take different types of preventative measures to deter copyright infringement, with much of the focus since the early 1990s being on preventing or reducing digital methods of infringement	Who takes different steps to prevent infringement?
Legislatures have reduced infringement by narrowing the scope of what is considered infringing	How have governments lowered infringement rates?
"Some copyright owners voluntarily reduce the scope of what is considered infringement by employing relatively permissive, ""open"" licensing strategies: rather than privately negotiating license terms with individual users who must first seek out the copyright owner and ask for permission, the copyright owner publishes and distributes the work with a prepared license that anyone can use, as long as they adhere to certain conditions"	What do some copyright owners do by reducing the scope of infringement?
To prevent piracy of films, the standard drill of film distribution is to have a movie first released through movie theaters , on average approximately 16 and a half weeks, before having it released to Blu-Ray and DVD 	How long is a movie typically released in theaters for?
GAO's 2010 findings regarding the great difficulty of accurately gauging the economic impact of copyright infringement was reinforced within the same report by the body's research into three commonly cited estimates that had previously been provided to U	How many commanly cited estimates did the body report on?
According to a 2007 BSA and International Data Corporation study, the five countries with the highest rates of software piracy were: 1	Who did a study in 2007 regarding the five countries with the highest rates of software piracy?
"In its 2011 report, conducted in partnership with IDC and Ipsos Public Affairs, the BSA stated: ""Over half of the world's personal computer users – 57 percent – admit to pirating software"	Who else did the BSA issues a report in 2011 with?
In 2007, the Institute for Policy Innovation reported that music piracy took $12	Who reported that piracy took $12.5 billion from the U.S. economy?
Professor Aram Sinnreich, in his book The Piracy Crusade, states that the connection between declining music sails and the creation of peer to peer file sharing sites such as Napster is tenuous, based on correlation rather than causation	What book did Professor Aram Sinnreich write?
The 2011 Business Software Alliance Piracy Study Standard, estimates the total commercial value of illegally copied software to be at $59 billion in 2010, with emerging markets accounting for $31	What was the estimated total value of pirated software in 2010?
Situated on the southern tip of the Balkan peninsula, it shares land borders with Albania to the northwest, the Republic of Macedonia and Bulgaria to the north and Turkey to the northeast	On what peninsula is Greece located?
Greece was first unified under Philip of Macedon in the fourth century BC	Who was the first person to bring all of Greece together?
A founding member of the United Nations, Greece was the tenth member to join the European Communities and has been part of the Eurozone since 2001	Greece is one of the members who founded what organization?
Although the Greeks call the country Hellas or Ellada and its official name is the Hellenic Republic, in English it is referred to as Greece, which comes from the Latin term Graecia as used by the Romans, which literally means 'the land of the Greeks', and derives from the Greek name Γραικός	What is one of the names the Greeks call their country?
The earliest evidence of the presence of human ancestors in the southern Balkans, dated to 270,000 BC, is to be found in the Petralona cave, in the Greek province of Macedonia	Humans in the Balkans have been dated to what year?
Greece is home to the first advanced civilizations in Europe and is considered the birthplace of Western civilization, beginning with the Cycladic civilization on the islands of the Aegean Sea at around 3200 BC, the Minoan civilization in Crete , and then the Mycenaean civilization on the mainland 	Ancient Greece is considered to be where what was born?
The end of the Dark Ages is traditionally dated to 776 BC, the year of the first Olympic Games	When did the Olympic Game begin?
By 500 BC, the Persian Empire controlled the Greek city states in Asia Minor and had made territorial gains in the Balkans and Eastern Europe proper as well	In 500 BC, Greece was ruled over by who?
The most devastating intra-Greek war was the Peloponnesian War , won by Sparta and marking the demise of the Athenian Empire as the leading power in ancient Greece	The war from 431-404 BC is known as what? 
After a period of confusion following Alexander's death, the Antigonid dynasty, descended from one of Alexander's generals, established its control over Macedon and most of the Greek city-states by 276 BC	Who controlled Macedon after Alexander died?
The process was completed in 27 BC when the Roman Emperor Augustus annexed the rest of Greece and constituted it as the senatorial province of Achaea	What Roman Emperor became the ruler of all of Greece?
Greek-speaking communities of the Hellenized East were instrumental in the spread of early Christianity in the 2nd and 3rd centuries, and Christianity's early leaders and writers were mostly Greek-speaking, though generally not from Greece itself	In what language was the first book of the Bible conceived?
The raids and devastation of the Goths and Huns in the 4th and 5th centuries and the Slavic invasion of Greece in the 7th century resulted in a dramatic collapse in imperial authority in the Greek peninsula	When did the Slavs invade Greece?
The Byzantine recovery of lost provinces began toward the end of the 8th century and most of the Greek peninsula came under imperial control again, in stages, during the 9th century	The Byzantine began taking back territories during the last of what century?
"Following the Fourth Crusade and the fall of Constantinople to the ""Latins"" in 1204 mainland Greece was split between the Greek Despotate of Epirus and Frankish rule , while some islands came under Venetian rule"	Greece was split into sections of different rulers in what year?
In the 14th century, much of the Greek peninsula was lost by the Byzantine Empire at first to the Serbs and then to the Ottomans	A lot of Greece was lost by whom in the 14th century?
While most of mainland Greece and the Aegean islands was under Ottoman control by the end of the 15th century, Cyprus and Crete remained Venetian territory and did not fall to the Ottomans until 1571 and 1670 respectively	The Ottomans controlled what islands b y the end of the 15th century?
Although the Ottoman state did not force non-Muslims to convert to Islam, Christians faced several types of discrimination intended to highlight their inferior status in the Ottoman Empire	Due to discrimination, some Christians converted to what religion?
Prior to the Greek revolution, there had been a number of wars which saw Greeks fight against the Ottomans, such as the Greek participation in the Battle of Lepanto in 1571, the Epirus peasants' revolts of 1600–1601, the Morean War of 1684–1699, and the Russian-instigated Orlov Revolt in 1770, which aimed at breaking up the Ottoman Empire in favor of Russian interests	The Battle of of Lepanto took place in what year?
"The 16th and 17th centuries are regarded as something of a ""dark age"" in Greek history, with the prospect of overthrowing Ottoman rule appearing remote with only the Ionian islands remaining free of Turkish domination"	Greece's Dark Ages is thought of as what time periods?
In 1814, a secret organization called the Filiki Eteria was founded with the aim of liberating Greece	In which year did the Society of Friends begin?
By the end of the month, the Peloponnese was in open revolt against the Ottomans and by October 1821 the Greeks under Theodoros Kolokotronis had captured Tripolitsa	In what year did the Greeks take Tripolitsa?
Tensions soon developed among different Greek factions, leading to two consecutive civil wars	How many successive civil wars occurred between Greek clans?
After years of negotiation, three Great Powers, Russia, the United Kingdom and France, decided to intervene in the conflict and each nation sent a navy to Greece	What three countries sent their Navy to Greece?
Corruption and Trikoupis' increased spending to create necessary infrastructure like the Corinth Canal overtaxed the weak Greek economy, forcing the declaration of public insolvency in 1893 and to accept the imposition of an International Financial Control authority to pay off the country's debtors	In 1893 Greece announced what?
When war broke out between Russia and the Ottomans in 1877, Greek popular sentiment rallied to Russia's side, but Greece was too poor, and too concerned of British intervention, to officially enter the war	War between Russia and the Ottomans began in what year?
In the following years, the struggle between King Constantine I and charismatic Prime Minister Eleftherios Venizelos over the country's foreign policy on the eve of World War I dominated the country's political scene, and divided the country into two opposing groups	What divided Greece into two political groups?
In the aftermath of the First World War, Greece attempted further expansion into Asia Minor, a region with a large native Greek population at the time, but was defeated in the Greco-Turkish War of 1919–1922, contributing to a massive flight of Asia Minor Greeks	What years did the Greco-Turkish war take place?
The task was undertaken by settling the Pontians and Cappadocians in the Macedonian mountains, where they would adapt better, and settling the Demotic speakers and non Greeks in the Greek Isles and cities, where they were already adapted to	Pontian and Cappadocian refugees were relocated to where?
Following the catastrophic events in Asia Minor, the monarchy was abolished via a referendum in 1924 and the Second Hellenic Republic was declared	The Greek Monarchy was abolished when?
Over 100,000 civilians died of starvation during the winter of 1941–1942, tens of thousands more died because of reprisals by Nazis and collaborators, the country's economy was ruined and the great majority of Greek Jews were deported and murdered in Nazi concentration camps	How many Greeks starved due to Nazi occupation?
Meanwhile, Andreas Papandreou founded the Panhellenic Socialist Movement in response to Karamanlis's conservative New Democracy party, with the two political formations alternating in government ever since	Who founded the PASOK?
Located in Southern Europe, Greece consists of a mountainous, peninsular mainland jutting out into the sea at the southern end of the Balkans, ending at the Peloponnese peninsula and strategically located at the crossroads of Europe, Asia, and Africa	Greece is where geographically?
Mount Olympus, the mythical abode of the Greek Gods, culminates at Mytikas peak 2,918 metres , the highest in the country	How tall is Mount Olympus?
The Pindus range continues through the central Peloponnese, crosses the islands of Kythera and Antikythera and finds its way into southwestern Aegean, in the island of Crete where it eventually ends	Where does the Pindus mountain range end?
The Greek islands are traditionally grouped into the following clusters: The Argo-Saronic Islands in the Saronic gulf near Athens, the Cyclades, a large but dense collection occupying the central part of the Aegean Sea, the North Aegean islands, a loose grouping off the west coast of Turkey, the Dodecanese, another loose collection in the southeast between Crete and Turkey, the Sporades, a small tight group off the coast of northeast Euboea, and the Ionian Islands, located to the west of the mainland in the Ionian Sea	The Saronic gulf is near what city?
The climate of Greece is primarily Mediterranean, featuring mild, wet winters and hot, dry summers	Greece's climate is mainly of what type?
The mountainous areas of Northwestern Greece as well as in the mountainous central parts of Peloponnese – including parts of the regional units of Achaea, Arcadia and Laconia – feature an Alpine climate with heavy snowfalls	The climate of Greece in the Northwest is known as what?
Phytogeographically, Greece belongs to the Boreal Kingdom and is shared between the East Mediterranean province of the Mediterranean Region and the Illyrian province of the Circumboreal Region	Greece's plant distribution belongs to what?
Greece is a unitary parliamentary republic	What type of republic is Greece?
From the Constitutional amendment of 1986 the President's duties were curtailed to a significant extent, and they are now largely ceremonial; most political power thus lies in the hands of the Prime Minister	The constitution was amended to reduce the President's power in what year?
Legislative powers are exercised by a 300-member elective unicameral Parliament	How many members are in Greece's parliament? 
The coalition government led the country to the parliamentary elections of May 2012	In May 2012, who started the parliamentary elections?
Greece's foreign policy is conducted through the Ministry for Foreign Affairs and its head, the Minister for Foreign Affairs	Who is the head for Greece's foreign policy?
Greece has universal compulsory military service for males, while females are exempted from conscription but may otherwise serve in the military	What type of military service does Greece require?
Since the Kallikratis programme reform entered into effect on 1 January 2011, Greece has consisted of thirteen regions subdivided into a total of 325 municipalities	How many regions exist in Greece since 2011?
Its economy mainly comprises the service sector (85	The largest sector of Greece's economy is what?
With an economy larger than all the Balkan economies combined, Greece is the largest economy in the Balkans, and an important regional investor	Greece's economy is what size?
The Greek economy is classified as advanced and high-income	What classification does the Greek economy hold?
"According to Der Spiegel credits given to European governments were disguised as ""swaps"" and consequently did not get registered as debt"	What was used to hide debts?
In terms of total number of ships, the Greek Merchant Navy stands at 4th worldwide, with 3,150 ships 	Where is the Greek Merchant Navy ranked?
The vast majority of visitors in Greece in 2007 came from the European continent, numbering 12	Where does most of Greece's visitors come from?
A modern intercity rail connection between Athens and Thessaloniki has also been established, while an upgrade to double lines in many parts of the 2,500 km network is underway	How long is the Greek railway system?
3G/4G mobile internet usage has been on a sharp increase in recent years, with a 340% increase between August 2011 and August 2012	In recent years, what usage has risen dramatically?
Greece has been a member of the European Space Agency since 2005	Greece has been a member of what agency since 2005?
Notable Greek scientists of modern times include Dimitrios Galanos, Georgios Papanikolaou , Nicholas Negroponte, Constantin Carathéodory , Manolis Andronikos , Michael Dertouzos, John Argyris, Panagiotis Kondylis, John Iliopoulos , Joseph Sifakis , Christos Papadimitriou , Mihalis Yannakakis , Dimitri Nanopoulos and Helene Ahrweiler	What Greek scientist invented the Pap test?
Estimates of the recognized Greek Muslim minority, which is mostly located in Thrace, range from 98,000 to 140,000, while the immigrant Muslim community numbers between 200,000 and 300,000	What is the religious minority in Greece?
Greek citizens who are Roman Catholic are estimated to be at around 50,000 with the Roman Catholic immigrant community in the country approximately 200,000	How many Greek natural citizens are Catholic?
During the 19th and 20th centuries there was a major dispute known as the Greek language question, on whether the official language of Greece should be the archaic Katharevousa, created in the 19th century and used as the state and scholarly language, or the Dimotiki, the form of the Greek language which evolved naturally from Byzantine Greek and was the language of the people	When did the Greek Language dispute take place?
Greece is today relatively homogeneous in linguistic terms, with a large majority of the native population using Greek as their first or only language	What is the language spoken by most Greeks?
Their use has decreased radically in the course of the 20th century through assimilation with the Greek-speaking majority	Minority languages have been reduce due to what?
Near the northern Greek borders there are also some Slavic–speaking groups, locally known as Slavomacedonian-speaking, most of whose members identify ethnically as Greeks	Where are Slavic speaking groups generally found?
A study from the Mediterranean Migration Observatory maintains that the 2001 census recorded 762,191 persons residing in Greece without Greek citizenship, constituting around 7% of total population	In 2001, how many Greek residents were not citizens?
Greece, together with Italy and Spain, is a major entry point for illegal immigrants trying to enter the EU	Greece is a major destination for what to enter?
Greeks have a long tradition of valuing and investing in paideia 	Paideia is also known as what?
Greece's post-compulsory secondary education consists of two school types: unified upper secondary schools and technical–vocational educational schools 	Greece's secondary education has how many school types?
"According to the Framework Law , Public higher education ""Highest Educational Institutions"" consists of two parallel sectors:the University sector and the Technological sector and the School of Pedagogic and Technological Education)"	What is one of the education sectors according to the Framework Law?
Greece has universal health care	What kind of health care exists in Greece?
The culture of Greece has evolved over thousands of years, beginning in Mycenaean Greece and continuing most notably into Classical Greece, through the influence of the Roman Empire and its Greek Eastern continuation, the Eastern Roman or Byzantine Empire	Where did Greece culture begin?
In ancient times, Greece was the birthplace of Western culture	Ancient Greece was the birthplace of what?
The modern Greek theatre was born after the Greek independence, in the early 19th century, and initially was influenced by the Heptanesean theatre and melodrama, such as the Italian opera	Modern Greek theater began when?
Aristotle of Stagira, the most important disciple of Plato, shared with his teacher the title of the greatest philosopher of antiquity	Which disciple of Plato was considered the most important?
At the beginning of Greek literature stand the two monumental works of Homer: the Iliad and the Odyssey	What are two works by Homer?
Cinema first appeared in Greece in 1896 but the first actual cine-theatre was opened in 1907	What year did cinema first appear in Greece?
The 1950s and early 1960s are considered by many to be a golden age of Greek cinema	Which time period is considered the golden age of Greek cinema? 
Cacoyannis also directed Zorba the Greek with Anthony Quinn which received Best Director, Best Adapted Screenplay and Best Film nominations	What other famous movie did Cacoyannis direct?
Greek cuisine is characteristic of the healthy Mediterranean diet, which is epitomized by dishes of Crete	What is a characteristic of the Mediterranean diet? 
Sweet desserts such as galaktoboureko, and drinks such as ouzo, metaxa and a variety of wines including retsina	What is the name of one sweet dessert in Greece?
Greek vocal music extends far back into ancient times where mixed-gender choruses performed for entertainment, celebration and spiritual reasons	Greek vocal music goes back how far in history?
While the new technique of polyphony was developing in the West, the Eastern Orthodox Church resisted any type of change	The Eastern Orthodox Church resisted what change in music?
Along with the Byzantine chant and music, the Greek people also cultivated the Greek folk song which is divided into two cycles, the akritic and klephtic	What are the two cycles of the Greek folk song?
The Heptanesean kantádhes (καντάδες 'serenades'; sing	What was the forerunner of Greek modern song?
Rebetiko, initially a music associated with the lower classes, later reached greater general acceptance as the rough edges of its overt subcultural character were softened and polished, sometimes to the point of unrecognizability	What music began associated with the lower classes?
Regarding the classical music, it was through the Ionian islands that all the major advances of the western European classical music were introduced to mainland Greeks	Through which islands was European classical music introduced to the Greeks?
In the 20th century, Greek composers have had a significant impact on the development of avant garde and modern classical music, with figures such as Iannis Xenakis, Nikos Skalkottas, and Dimitri Mitropoulos achieving international prominence	Who is one 20th century Greek composers that has had an impact on modern classical music?
Greece participated in the Eurovision Song Contest 35 times after its debut at the 1974 Contest	How many time has Greece participated in the Eurovision Song Contest?
Greece is the birthplace of the ancient Olympic Games, first recorded in 776 BC in Olympia, and hosted the modern Olympic Games twice, the inaugural 1896 Summer Olympics and the 2004 Summer Olympics	Greece is the birthplace of what sporting event?
The Greek national football team, ranking 12th in the world in 2014 , were crowned European Champions in Euro 2004 in one of the biggest upsets in the history of the sport and became one of the most successful national teams in European football, being one of only nine national teams to have won the UEFA European Championship	What ranking did the Greek national football team hold in 2014.
As of 2012, it ranked 4th in the world and 2nd in Europe	The Greek national basketball team held what world ranking in 2012?
The Greece women's national water polo team have emerged as one of the leading powers in the world, becoming World Champions after their gold medal win against the hosts China at the 2011 World Championship	In what year did Greece's women's water polo team win the World Championship?
The Greek men's national volleyball team has won two bronze medals, one in the European Volleyball Championship and another one in the European Volleyball League, a 5th place in the Olympic Games and a 6th place in the FIVB Volleyball Men's World Championship	The Greek Men's national volleyball team has won how many bronze medals?
The principal gods of the ancient Greek religion were the Dodekatheon, or the Twelve Gods, who lived on the top of Mount Olympus	Where did the mythical Greek gods live?
According to Greek law, every Sunday of the year is a public holiday	Greek law says that every Sunday of the year is a what?
In 2011, it became apparent that the bail-out would be insufficient and a second bail-out amounting to €130 billion was agreed in 2012, subject to strict conditions, including financial reforms and further austerity measures	in 2012, what was the amount of the bailout?
Following the assassination of Phillip II, his son Alexander III assumed the leadership of the League of Corinth and launched an invasion of the Persian Empire with the combined forces of all Greek states in 334 BC	Alexander III was the son of whom?
It has operations in over 90 countries, produces around 3	In how many countries does Shell have operations?
"In February 1907, the Royal Dutch Shell Group was created through the amalgamation of two rival companies: the Royal Dutch Petroleum Company of the Netherlands and the ""Shell"" Transport and Trading Company Ltd of the United Kingdom"	The Royal Dutch Shell Group was created through the merger of which two rival companies?
The terms of the merger gave 60 percent ownership of the new group to the Dutch arm and 40 percent to the British	What percent of ownership did the merger award the Dutch branch?
In November 2004, following a period of turmoil caused by the revelation that Shell had been overstating its oil reserves, it was announced that the Shell Group would move to a single capital structure, creating a new parent company to be named Royal Dutch Shell plc, with its primary listing on the London Stock Exchange, a secondary listing on the Amsterdam Stock Exchange, its headquarters and tax residency in The Hague, Netherlands and its registered office in London	In what year was it announced that the Shell Group would move to a single capital structure?
In February 2010 Shell and Cosan formed a 50:50 joint-venture, Raízen, comprising all of Cosan's Brazilian ethanol, energy generation, fuel distribution and sugar activities, and all of Shell's Brazilian retail fuel and aviation distribution businesses	In what year did Shell and Cosan form a 50:50 joint venture?
Over the course of 2013, the corporation began the sale of its US shale gas assets and cancelled a US$20 billion gas project that was to be constructed in the US state of Louisiana	Which assets did the corporation begin to sell in 2013?
The presence of companies like Shell in the Niger-Delta has led to extreme environmental issues in the Niger Delta	What is a cause of severe environmental issues in the Niger Delta?
"The name Shell is linked to The ""Shell"" Transport and Trading Company"	The name Shell is connected to what company?
Shell's primary business is the management of a vertically integrated oil company	What is Shell's primary business?
Traditionally, Shell was a heavily decentralised business worldwide with companies in over 100 countries, each of which operated with a high degree of independence	Shell was traditionally considered what type of business worldwide?
Downstream operations, which now also includes the chemicals business, generates a third of Shell's profits worldwide and is known for its global network of more than 40,000 petrol stations and its 47 oil refineries	Downstream operations currently includes what type of business?
"In April 2010, Shell announced its intention to divest from downstream business of all African countries except South Africa and Egypt to Vitol and ""Helios"""	What did Shell announce in April 2010?
On 27 August 2007, Royal Dutch Shell and Reitan Group, the owner of the 7-Eleven brand in Scandinavia, announced an agreement to re-brand some 269 service stations across Norway, Sweden, Finland and Denmark, subject to obtaining regulatory approvals under the different competition laws in each country	What company was the owner of the 7-Eleven brand in Scandinavia?
Through most of Shell's early history, the Shell Oil Company business in the United States was substantially independent with its stock being traded on the NYSE and with little direct involvement from the group's central offices in the running of the American business	Shell Oil Company's United States business throughout its early history is described as what?
On 20 May 2011, Royal Dutch Shell's final investment decision for the world's first floating liquefied natural gas facility was finalized following the discovery of the remote offshore Prelude field—located off Australia's northwestern coast and estimated to contain about 3 trillion cubic feet of natural gas equivalent reserves—in 2007	The remote offshore Prelude field was discovered where?
Shell became a major shareholder in Woodside after a 2001 takeover attempt was blocked by then federal Treasurer Peter Costello and the corporation has been open about its intention to sell its stake in Woodside as part of its target to shed assets	Shell became a major shareholder in Woodside after a takeover attempt was blocked in what year?
Following the purchase of an offshore lease in 2005, Shell initiated its US$4	Shell purchased what in 2005?
"Additionally, difficult weather conditions resulted in the delay of drilling during mid-2012 and the already dire situation was exacerbated by the ""Kulluk"" incident at the end of the year"	What conditions caused the delay of drilling in mid-2012?
As the Kulluk oil rig was being towed to the American state of Washington to be serviced in preparation for the 2013 drilling season, a winter storm on 27 December 2012 caused the towing crews, as well as the rescue service, to lose control of the situation	Why was the Kulluk oil rig being towed to Washington?
"It was unclear if Shell would recommence drilling in mid-2013, following the ""Kulluk"" incident and, in February 2013, the corporation stated that it would ""pause"" its closely watched drilling project off the Alaskan coast in 2013, and will instead prepare for future exploration"	Following what event was it uncertain if Shell would recommence drilling?
In the 1990s, protesters criticised the company's environmental record, particularly the possible pollution caused by the proposed disposal of the Brent Spar platform into the North Sea	For what particular reason did protesters criticize the company's environmental record in the 1990s?
In the beginning of 1996, several human rights groups brought cases to hold Shell accountable for alleged human rights violations in Nigeria, including summary execution, crimes against humanity, torture, inhumane treatment and arbitrary arrest and detention	In 1996, multiple groups filed lawsuits to hold Shell accountable for what?
"In 2010, a leaked cable revealed that Shell claims to have inserted staff into all the main ministries of the Nigerian government and know ""everything that was being done in those ministries"", according to Shell's top executive in Nigeria"	A 2010 leaked communication revealed that Shell claimed to have inserted what into which entities?
On 16 March 2012, 52 Greenpeace activists from five different countries boarded Fennica and Nordica, multipurpose icebreakers chartered to support Shell's drilling rigs near Alaska	How many Greenpeace activists boarded Fennica and Nordica in March 2012?
"In response, Shell filed lawsuits to seek injunctions from possible protests, and Benjamin Jealous of the NAACP and Radford argued that the legal action was ""trampling American's rights"	Why did Shell file lawsuits?
6 in) bumblebee bat to the 33-meter blue whale	Which specific mammal is the largest today?
"The word ""mammal"" is modern, from the scientific name Mammalia coined by Carl Linnaeus in 1758, derived from the Latin mamma "	"Who coined the name ""mammal"" from the scientific name Mammalia?"
Except for the five species of monotremes , all modern mammals give birth to live young	How many species of mammals do not have a live birth?
At the end of the Carboniferous period, this group diverged from the sauropsid line that led to today's reptiles and birds	From which time period did birds and reptiles began to appear from?
In an influential 1988 paper, Timothy Rowe defined Mammalia phylogenetically as the crown group mammals, the clade consisting of the most recent common ancestor of living monotremes and therian mammals and all descendants of that ancestor	Who defined mammalian as the crown group mammals?
I	What are two examples of the most recent ancestor of the Jurassic period?
Ambondro is more closely related to monotremes than to therian mammals while Amphilestes and Amphitherium are more closely related to the therians; as fossils of all three genera are dated about 167 million years ago in the Middle Jurassic, this is a reasonable estimate for the appearance of the crown group	Which group are Ambondro's closely related to?
"George Gaylord Simpson's ""Principles of Classification and a Classification of Mammals"" (AMNH Bulletin v"	"Who wrote the ""Principles of Classification and a Classification of Mammals?"
The authors worked together as paleontologists at the American Museum of Natural History, New York	Where did the two authors work together as paleontologist? 
Molecular studies based on DNA analysis have suggested new relationships among mammal families over the last few years	Through Molecular studies, what was used to suggest new relationships among mammal families?
The first amniotes apparently arose in the Late Carboniferous	From which period did the first known amniotes arise from?
Therapsids descended from pelycosaurs in the Middle Permian, about 265 million years ago, and became the dominant land vertebrates	From which dinosaur group did Therapsids descend from?
The Permian–Triassic extinction event, which was a prolonged event due to the accumulation of several extinction pulses, ended the dominance of the carnivores among the therapsids	What was the name of extinction level event that ended the dominance of the carnivores among therapsids?
"The oldest known fossil among the Eutheria is the small shrewlike Juramaia sinensis, or ""Jurassic mother from China"", dated to 160 million years ago in the Late Jurassic"	What is the oldest know fossil among the Eutheria group? 
Recent molecular phylogenetic studies suggest that most placental orders diverged about 100 to 85 million years ago and that modern families appeared in the period from the late Eocene through the Miocene	How long ago did most placental orders diverge from?
The earliest clear evidence of hair or fur is in fossils of Castorocauda, from 164 million years ago in the Middle Jurassic	When is it believed that the earliest know hair was said to exist?
Modern monotremes have lower body temperatures and more variable metabolic rates than marsupials and placentals, but there is evidence that some of their ancestors, perhaps including ancestors of the therians, may have had body temperatures like those of modern therians	Which group of animal has a lower body temperature that marsupials and placentals?
Air enters through the oral and nasal cavities; it flows through the larynx, trachea and bronchi and expands the alveoli	When air enters both the oral and nasal cavities, where does it flow through?
The epidermis is typically 10 to 30 cells thick; its main function is to provide a waterproof layer	What is the typical thickness of the epidermis?
Mammalian hair, also known as pelage, can vary in color between populations, organisms within a population, and even on the individual organism	What is another name used for mammalian hair?
Most mammals are viviparous, giving birth to live young	What is the common mammal group that gives birth to live young?
Viviparous mammals are in the subclass Theria; those living today are in the marsupial and placental infraclasses	Which sub class are most viviparous mammals in?
In intelligent mammals, such as primates, the cerebrum is larger relative to the rest of the brain	Which part is larger relative to the brain in primates?
To maintain a high constant body temperature is energy expensive – mammals therefore need a nutritious and plentiful diet	To be able to maintain a constant body temperature, what do mammals need to maintain?
 These may form zones of gradation known as clines	What is the name given when zones of gradation exits?
Soon after the defeat of the Spanish Armada in 1588, London merchants presented a petition to Queen Elizabeth I for permission to sail to the Indian Ocean	The Spanish Armada suffered a defeat in what year?
"This time they succeeded, and on 31 December 1600, the Queen granted a Royal Charter to ""George, Earl of Cumberland, and 215 Knights, Aldermen, and Burgesses"" under the name, Governor and Company of Merchants of London trading with the East Indies"	What did the Queen give them for suceeding?
But in 1609 he renewed the charter given to the company for an indefinite period, including a clause that specified that the charter would cease to be in force if the trade turned unprofitable for three consecutive years	In 1609 the charter was renewed for what period of time?
The company established trading posts in Surat , Madras , Bombay , and Calcutta 	when was the bombay trading post established?
The company's mainstay businesses were by then cotton, silk, indigo dye, saltpetre, and tea	How important were cotton, silk, indigo dye,saltpetre and tea to the company?
The pirates gave chase and caught up with Fateh Muhammed some days later, and meeting little resistance, took some £50,000 to £60,000 worth of treasure	How much treasure was taken by pirates?
The loot from the Ganj-i-Sawai had a total value between £325,000 and £600,000, including 500,000 gold and silver pieces, and has become known as the richest ship ever taken by pirates	What was the total value of cargo on the Ganj-i-Sawai?
In response, a combined bounty of £1,000 was offered for Every's capture by the Privy Council and East India Company, leading to the first worldwide manhunt in recorded history	Who caused the first worldwide manhunt?
This allowed any English firm to trade with India, unless specifically prohibited by act of parliament, thereby annulling the charter that had been in force for almost 100 years	enlish firms were allow to trade with India unless?
By 1720, 15% of British imports were from India, almost all passing through the company, which reasserted the influence of the company lobby	in 1720 what % of import goods were from India? 
In 1742, fearing the monetary consequences of a war, the British government agreed to extend the deadline for the licensed exclusive trade by the company in India until 1783, in return for a further loan of £1 million	The British Government agrree to extend the licensed for the company in India until 1793 for how much money
With the advent of the Industrial Revolution, Britain surged ahead of its European rivals	what was the type of Revolution that allowed Britian to move ahead of its European rivals?
Outstanding debts were also agreed and the company permitted to export 250 tons of saltpetre	Due to agreed debt what 250 tons product was first permitted to be exported by the company after the seven years' war?
By the Treaty of Paris , France regained the five establishments captured by the British during the war but was prevented from erecting fortifications and keeping troops in Bengal (art	what year was the Treaty of Paris agreed on?
In its first century and half, the EIC used a few hundred soldiers as guards	what is the acronym for the East india company?
With the gradual weakening of the Marathas in the aftermath of the three Anglo-Maratha wars, the British also secured the Ganges-Jumna Doab, the Delhi-Agra region, parts of Bundelkhand, Broach, some districts of Gujarat, the fort of Ahmmadnagar, province of Cuttack , Bombay and the surrounding areas, leading to a formal end of the Maratha empire and firm establishment of the British East India Company in India	how many Anglo Maratha wars were there?
Within the Army, British officers who initially trained at the company's own academy at the Addiscombe Military Seminary, always outranked Indians, no matter how long their service	What was the name of EIC military company?
In 1838 with the amount of smuggled opium entering China approaching 1,400 tons a year, the Chinese imposed a death penalty for opium smuggling and sent a Special Imperial Commissioner, Lin Zexu, to curb smuggling	in 1838 what was the sentence for smuggling opium in to China?
The three members nominated by Parliament and representing the Government's interest could, and invariably would, outvote the two Company members	EIC was leased back the land they held in British India by what part of the British goverment?
The Governor General and the council would have complete legislative powers	The highest ranking persons title in British india is?
Pitt's Act was deemed a failure because it quickly became apparent that the boundaries between government control and the company's powers were nebulous and highly subjective	The name of the Act that was a failure in creating bourdaries for the Crown and the EIC for being subjective?
By the middle of the 19th century, the Company's rule extended across most of India, Burma, Malaya, Singapore, and British Hong Kong, and a fifth of the world's population was under its trading influence	by the middle of the 19th century how much of the worlds population was effected by EIC and it trade?
The aggressive policies of Lord Wellesley and the Marquis of Hastings led to the Company gaining control of all India , and some part of the then kingdom of Nepal under the Sugauli Treaty	What Lord helped the EIC through his politics, take control over all of india?
The Company's headquarters in London, from which much of India was governed, was East India House in Leadenhall Street	Where were the EIC headquarters located?
In 1803, an Act of Parliament, promoted by the East India Company, established the East India Dock Company, with the aim of establishing a new set of docks primarily for the use of ships trading with India	in 1803 was act of parliament supported by EIC? 
From the period of 1600, the canton consisted of a St George's Cross representing the Kingdom of England	in the period of 1600 what Canton cross repesented England
""" The shield had as a crest: ""A sphere without a frame, bounded with the Zodiac in bend Or, between two pennants flottant Argent, each charged with a cross Gules, over the sphere the words DEUS INDICAT"" "	What does DEUS INDICAT mean?
""" The crest was: ""A lion rampant guardant Or holding between the forepaws a regal crown proper"	The EIC Arms feature what king of the jungle animal on it?
During the period of the Napoleonic Wars, the East India Company arranged for letters of marque for its vessels such as the Lord Nelson	During what war Did the EIC get letter of marque for its vessels
At the Battle of Pulo Aura, which was probably the company's most notable naval victory, Nathaniel Dance, Commodore of a convoy of Indiamen and sailing aboard the Warley, led several Indiamen in a skirmish with a French squadron, driving them off	What was the most notable naval victory EIC had?
Unlike all other British Government records, the records from the East India Company are not in The National Archives at Kew, London, but are held by the British Library in London as part of the Asia, Pacific and Africa Collections	Where are the records of the EIC housed today?
Hokkien /hɒˈkiɛn/ or Quanzhang is a group of mutually intelligible Min Nan Chinese dialects spoken throughout Southeast Asia, Taiwan, and by many other overseas Chinese	Where is Hokkien spoken?
The term Hokkien is itself a term not used in Chinese to refer to the dialect, as it simply means Fujian province	What does Hokkien mean?
Many ethnic Han Chinese emigrants to the region were Hoklo from southern Fujian, and brought the language to what is now Burma , Indonesia and present day Malaysia and Singapore 	Who brought the language Hokkien to Myanmar?
During the Three Kingdoms period of ancient China, there was constant warfare occurring in the Central Plain of China	The Three Kings Period was a period of time in what country?
In 677 , Chen Zheng , together with his son Chen Yuanguang , led a military expedition to pacify the rebellion in Fujian	Who was the ruler of China in 677?
Xiamen dialect, sometimes known as Amoy, is the main dialect spoken in the Chinese city of Xiamen and its surrounding regions of Tong'an and Xiang'an, both of which are now included in the Greater Xiamen area	What is another name for Xiamen dialect?
Hokkien has one of the most diverse phoneme inventories among Chinese varieties, with more consonants than Standard Mandarin or Cantonese	What Chinese dialect has more consonants than standard Mandarin or Cantonese?
In general, Hokkien dialects have 5 to 7 phonemic tones	How many phonemic tones do Hokkien dialects have?
The Amoy dialect is a hybrid of the Quanzhou and Zhangzhou dialects	The Amoy dialect is a hybrid of what two dialects?
Hokkien dialects are analytic; in a sentence, the arrangement of words is important to its meaning	In Hokkien dialects, the arrangent of words is important to what?
The existence of literary and colloquial readings , called tha̍k-im , is a prominent feature of some Hokkien dialects and indeed in many Sinitic varieties in the south	What are literary and colloquial readings called?
The pronounced divergence between literary and colloquial pronunciations found in Hokkien dialects is attributed to the presence of several strata in the Min lexicon	Colloquial stratum can be traced to several strata in what lexicon?
Quite a few words from the variety of Old Chinese spoken in the state of Wu , and later words from Middle Chinese as well, have retained the original meanings in Hokkien, while many of their counterparts in Mandarin Chinese have either fallen out of daily use, have been substituted with other words , or have developed newer meanings	Where did the language of Min and Wu dialects originate?
Hokkien originated from Quanzhou	Where did Hokkein originate?
In the 1990s, marked by the liberalization of language development and mother tongue movement in Taiwan, Taiwanese Hokkien had undergone a fast pace in its development	When did Taiwanese Hokkien have a fast change in development?
Hokkien dialects are typically written using Chinese characters 	Hokkien is usually written using what characters?
While most Hokkien morphemes have standard designated characters, they are not always etymological or phono-semantic	Most Hokkein morphemes have what type of characters?
Hokkien, especially Taiwanese, is sometimes written in the Latin script using one of several alphabets	Hokkien is sometimes written in what script?
Min Nan texts, all Hokkien, can be dated back to the 16th century	When can Min Nan texts be dated back to?
All Latin characters required by Pe̍h-ōe-jī can be represented using Unicode , using precomposed or combining characters	What is another name for unicode?
In 2002, the Taiwan Solidarity Union, a party with about 10% of the Legislative Yuan seats at the time, suggested making Taiwanese a second official language	What party wanted to make Taiwanese a second official language?
Professional wrestling is an athletic form of entertainment based on a portrayal of a combat sport	What is professional wrestling abbreviated as?
The content including match outcomes is choreographed and the combative actions and reactions are executed in special manners designed to both protect from, yet simulate, pain	How are the actions conducted?
While it has greatly declined in Europe, in North America it has experienced several different periods of prominent cultural popularity during its century and a half of existence	What part of the world has wrestling become less popular in?
Revenue is drawn from live event ticket sales, network television broadcasts, pay-per-view broadcasts, personal appearances by performers, branded merchandise and home video	Where does the money made from wrestling come from?
There have also been many fictional depictions of wrestling; the 2008 film The Wrestler received several Oscar nominations and began a career revival for star Mickey Rourke	What is one popular wrestling film?
Currently, the largest professional wrestling company worldwide is the United States-based WWE, which bought out many smaller regional companies in the late 20th century, as well as its primary US competitors WCW and Extreme Championship Wrestling in early 2001	What is the biggest wrestling company?
Gradually, the predetermined nature of professional wrestling became an open secret, as prominent figures in the wrestling business began to publicly admit that wrestling was entertainment, not competition	Who confessed that wrestling was not competition?
The audience is recognized and acknowledged by the performers as spectators to the sporting event being portrayed, and are encouraged to interact as such	How do the wrestlers treat the audience?
Modern matches are generally given a 10- to 30-minute time limit for standard matches; title matches can go for up to one hour	How long can a title match be?
Any wrestler who has a fall scored against them is forced out of the match, and the match continues until only one remains	What happens when a wrestler has a fall against them?
The most common of these is the ladder match	What is the most common of the special matches?
Although their actions are also frequently scripted for dramatic effect, referees are subject to certain general rules and requirements in order to maintain the theatrical appearance of unbiased authority	What determines how the referee acts?
Special guest referees may be used from time to time; by virtue of their celebrity status, they are often scripted to dispense with the appearance of neutrality and use their influence to unfairly influence the outcome of the match for added dramatic impact	What kind of referees are occasionally used?
Three horizontal ropes or cables surround the ring, suspended with turnbuckles which are connected to the posts	What is around the ring?
Typically the wrestler who is tagging out has a 5-second count to leave the ring, whereas the one tagging in can enter the ring at any time, resulting in heels legally double-teaming a face	How long does a wrestler have to leave the ring once they are tagged out?
Outside of kayfabe, this is done to give wrestlers a break from the action , and to make the action in the ring easier to choreograph	Why are tagging rules made?
For example, an attacking wrestler who is half-conscious may simply drape an arm over an opponent, or a cocky wrestler may place their foot gently on the opponent's body, prompting a three-count from the referee	What might a partially conscious wrestler do? 
However, although almost any scenario where one wrestler is covering another prone, back-first wrestler can be considered a pin attempt, there is one important exception to that rule: Pin attempts broken up by other wrestlers	What happens during a pin attempt?
Illegal pinning methods include using the ropes for leverage and hooking the opponent's clothing, which are therefore popular cheating methods for heels, unless certain stipulations make such an advantage legal	What is a pinning method that isn't allowed?
A wrestler may voluntarily submit by verbally informing the referee 	How can a wrestler willingly submit?
Submission was initially a large factor in professional wrestling, but following the decline of the submission-oriented catch-as-catch-can style from mainstream professional wrestling, the submission largely faded until the rise of the legitimate sport of mixed martial arts	Several well-known wrestlers were famous for winning with a move called what?
Most holds leave an arm or leg free, so that the person can tap out if they want	Many holds will leave what body parts free?
To check for a knockout in this manner, a referee will wave their hand in front of the wrestler's face; if the wrestler does not react in any way, the referee will award the victory to the other wrestler	How does a referee check for a knockout?
A referee may stop the match when they or official ring physician decides that a wrestler cannot safely continue the match	In what case can a referee choose to end the match?
A countout happens when a wrestler is out of the ring long enough for the referee to count to ten and thus disqualified	What are a couple other ways to write countout?
Disqualification occurs when a wrestler violates the match's rules, thus losing automatically	What else is disqualification called?
Usually, the only offenses that the referee will see and immediately disqualify the match on are low blows, weapon usage, interference, or assaulting the referee	What are the usual reasons for an automatic disqualification? 
A professional wrestling match can end in a draw	What is one way a match can end?
This can be due to excessive interference, loss of referee's control over the match, one or more participants sustaining debilitating injury not caused by the opponent, or the inability of a scheduled match to even begin	What kind of injury can cause a no contest ruling?
While each wrestling match is ostensibly a competition of athletics and strategy, the goal of each match from a business standpoint is to excite and entertain the audience	What is the point of a match?
In Latin America and English-speaking countries, most wrestlers portray character roles, sometimes with personalities wildly different from their own	What do most wrestlers do, as far as how they act?
It's actually considered proper decorum for fellow wrestlers to refer to each other by their stage names/characters rather than their birth/legal names, unless otherwise introduced	What is the popular way for wrestlers to refer to one another?
Typically, matches are staged between a protagonist and an antagonist 	What are other names for a protagonist?
"At times a character may ""turn"", altering their face/heel alignment"	What might a character do with their persona?
As with personae in general, a character's face or heel alignment may change with time, or remain constant over its lifetime 	Who is a wrestler who never turned? 
Such performers have historically employed a manager, who speaks on their behalf and adds to the performance	Who helps out a wrestler with poor speaking abilities?
While true exhibition matches are not uncommon, most matches tell a story analogous to a scene in a play or film, or an episode of a serial drama: The face will sometimes win or sometimes lose 	What do most matches have?
Outside of performance, these are referred to as feuds	What are rivalries often called?
Some promotions have included supernatural elements such as magic, curses, the undead and Satanic imagery 	What supernatural things have been portrayed in matches?
Behind the scenes, the bookers in a company will place the title on the most accomplished performer, or those the bookers believe will generate fan interest in terms of event attendance and television viewership	What happens behind the scenes of a match?
In general, a wrestler with multiple title reigns or an extended title reign is indicative of a wrestler's ability to maintain audience interest and/or a wrestler's ability to perform in the ring	What does it show when a wrestler has many titles?
All notable wrestlers now enter the ring accompanied by music, and regularly add other elements to their entrance	What occurs when a wrestler enters the ring?
The women's division of professional wrestling has maintained a recognized world champion since 1937, when Mildred Burke won the original World Women's title	Who won the women's title in 1937?
In Japan, professional wrestling done by female wrestlers is called joshi puroresu or joshi puro for short	What is professional female wrestling called in Japan?
In the 1980s, mixed tag team matches began to take place, with a male and female on each team and a rule stating that each wrestler could only attack the opponent of the same gender	What does a mixed tag team consist of?
Intergender singles bouts were first fought on a national level in the 1990s	When were intergender singles bouts fought on a national scale? 
"Some wrestlers may have their own specific ""mini me"", like Mascarita Sagrada, Alebrije has Quije, etc"	A wrestler may have a small person called what?
Perhaps the most famous wrestling bears are Ginger, Victor, Hercules and Terrible Ted	Who are the most well-known wrestling bears?
There is a story for each match, and even a longer story for successive matches	What does every match have?
Although professional wrestling in Mexico also has stories and characters, they are less emphasized	How do characters differ in Mexican wrestling?
Despite the similarity to its American counterpart in that the outcome of the matches remains predetermined, the phenomena are different in the form of the psychology and presentation of the sport; it is treated as a full contact combat sport as it mixes hard hitting martial arts strikes with shoot style submission holds, while in the U	How is Japanese wrestling similar to American?
"New performers are expected to ""pay their dues"" for a few years by working in lower-profile promotions and working as ring crew before working their way upward"	What is expected of newcomers? 
Fans of professional wrestling have their own subculture, comparable to those of science fiction, video games, or comic books 	What do the fans have?
Some fans enjoy a pastime of collecting tapes of wrestling shows from specific companies, of certain wrestlers, or of specific genres	What do some fans like to do?
From the first established world championship, the top professional wrestlers have garnered fame within mainstream society	What kind of notoriety have wrestlers achieved?
"In the wildly popular Rocky series of films about the fictional boxer Rocky Balboa, Rocky III saw its hero fighting a ""boxer vs"	Name a popular series of boxing films?
With its growing popularity, professional wrestling has attracted attention as a subject of serious academic study and journalistic criticism	What other areas has wrestling garnered interest from?
"However, this was not always the case; in the early 20th century, once it became apparent that the ""sport"" was worked, pro wrestling was looked down on as a cheap entertainment for the uneducated working class — an attitude that still exists to varying degrees today"	"What impact did the revelation of wrestling being ""fixed"" have?"
"While pro wrestling is often described simplistically as a ""soap opera for males"", it has also been cited as filling the role of past forms of literature and theatre; a synthesis of classical heroics, commedia dell'arte, revenge tragedies, morality plays, and burlesque"	What is wrestling sometimes called?
Documentary filmmakers have studied the lives of wrestlers and the effects the profession has on them and their families	Who has studied the lives of wrestlers?
Although professional wrestling is worked, there is a high chance of injury, and even death	What are the risks of wrestling?
In short, the higher the sensitivity, the grainier the image will be	What does the film's quantum efficiency limit? 
The Warnerke Standard Sensitometer consisted of a frame holding an opaque screen with an array of typically 25 numbered, gradually pigmented squares brought into contact with the photographic plate during a timed test exposure under a phosphorescent tablet excited before by the light of a burning Magnesium ribbon	What consists of 25 pigmented squares touching a plate below a phosphorescent tablet under the light of a burning Magnesium ribbon?
) system was devised by the German astronomer Julius Scheiner in 1894 originally as a method of comparing the speeds of plates used for astronomical photography	Who created the Scheinergrade system? 
The system was later extended to cover larger ranges and some of its practical shortcomings were addressed by the Austrian scientist Josef Maria Eder and Flemish-born botanist Walter Hecht , 	What did the Eder-Hecht device measure?
The DIN system, officially DIN standard 4512 by Deutsches Institut für Normung at this time), was published in January 1934	When was the DIN system established? 
As in the Scheiner system, speeds were expressed in 'degrees'	What unit was used in the DIN to express speeds? 
"On an international level the German DIN 4512 system has been effectively superseded in the 1980s by ISO 6:1974, ISO 2240:1982, and ISO 5800:1979 where the same sensitivity is written in linear and logarithmic form as ""ISO 100/21°"" "	What took the place of the German DIN 4512 system?
Before the advent of the ASA system, the system of Weston film speed ratings was introduced by Edward Faraday Weston and his father Dr	What system was used previous to the ASA system?
The company continued to publish Weston film ratings after 1955, but while their recommended values often differed slightly from the ASA film speeds found on film boxes, these newer Weston values were based on the ASA system and had to be converted for use with older Weston meters by subtracting 1/3 exposure stop as per Weston's recommendation	What were updated Weston values based on?
General Electric switched to use the ASA scale in 1946	Which company adopted the ASA scale in 1946?
Based on earlier research work by Loyd Ancile Jones of Kodak and inspired by the systems of Weston film speed ratings and General Electric film values, the American Standards Association defined a new method to determine and specify film speeds of black-and-white negative films in 1943	Who pioneered research that led to the new ANSI values?
The ASA standard underwent a major revision in 1960 with ASA PH2	In what year were big changes made to the ANSI?
log of exposure for the film, known as the D–log H curve or Hurter–Driffield curve	What is the plot from which film speed is derived called?
The effective f-number is proportional to the ratio between the lens focal length and aperture diameter, the diameter itself being proportional to the square root of the aperture area	What is the effective f-number proportional to?
Upon exposure, the amount of light energy that reaches the film determines the effect upon the emulsion	What determines the effect on the emulsion after exposure?
Some high-speed black-and-white films, such as Ilford Delta 3200 and Kodak T-MAX P3200, are marketed with film speeds in excess of their true ISO speed as determined using the ISO testing method	What are two examples of films that are marketed with speeds above their true ISO speed?
For digital photo cameras , an exposure index rating—commonly called ISO setting—is specified by the manufacturer such that the sRGB image files produced by the camera will have a lightness similar to what would be obtained with film of the same EI rating at the same exposure	What is another name for an exposure index rating?
Digital cameras have far surpassed film in terms of sensitivity to light, with ISO equivalent speeds of up to 409,600, a number that is unfathomable in the realm of conventional film photography	What types of cameras have proven to be much more sensitive to light than film?
The ISO standard ISO 12232:2006 gives digital still camera manufacturers a choice of five different techniques for determining the exposure index rating at each sensitivity setting provided by a particular camera model	How many techniques are available because of ISO 12232:2006?
The Recommended Exposure Index technique, new in the 2006 version of the standard, allows the manufacturer to specify a camera model’s EI choices arbitrarily	What option does the Recommended Exposure Index give manufacturers? 
The Standard Output Sensitivity technique, also new in the 2006 version of the standard, effectively specifies that the average level in the sRGB image must be 18% gray plus or minus 1/3 stop when the exposure is controlled by an automatic exposure control system calibrated per ISO 2721 and set to the EI with no exposure compensation	What year was the Standard Output Sensitivity technique introduced?
The CIPA DC-004 standard requires that Japanese manufacturers of digital still cameras use either the REI or SOS techniques, and DC-008 updates the Exif specification to differentiate between these values	Which methods are required by CIPA DC-004?
Typically, the lower limit of the saturation speed is determined by the sensor itself, but with the gain of the amplifier between the sensor and the analog-to-digital converter, the saturation speed can be increased	What does the sensor usually determine?
The noise-based speed is defined as the exposure that will lead to a given signal-to-noise ratio on individual pixels	What is the noise-based speed?
In addition, an exposure latitude can be specified, ranging from the saturation-based speed to the 10:1 noise-based speed	What is the range for exposure latitude?
"Despite these detailed standard definitions, cameras typically do not clearly indicate whether the user ""ISO"" setting refers to the noise-based speed, saturation-based speed, or the specified output sensitivity, or even some made-up number for marketing purposes"	"What measures might the user ""ISO"" setting correspond to?"
It is located in the Valley of Mexico , a large valley in the high plateaus at the center of Mexico, at an altitude of 2,240 metres 	How man feet above sea level is Mexico City
The Greater Mexico City has a gross domestic product of US$411 billion in 2011, making Mexico City urban agglomeration one of the economically largest metropolitan areas in the world	How big is Mexico City's GDP?
The city was originally built on an island of Lake Texcoco by the Aztecs in 1325 as Tenochtitlan, which was almost completely destroyed in the 1521 siege of Tenochtitlan, and subsequently redesigned and rebuilt in accordance with the Spanish urban standards	What was the original name of Mexico City?
Because of a clause in the Mexican Constitution, however, as the seat of the powers of the Union, it can never become a state, lest the capital of the country be relocated elsewhere	Why can't Mexico City become a state?
A major labor draft, the desagüe, compelled thousands of Indians over the colonial period to work on infrastructure to prevent flooding	What was the labor draft called?
"Many of these palaces can still be seen today, leading to Mexico City's nickname of ""The city of palaces"" given by Alexander Von Humboldt"	What is a common nickname for Mexico City?
Mexico's independence from Spain was effectively declared in the Declaration of Independence of the Mexican Empire on September 27, 1821, after a decade of war	When did Mexico gain independence? 
Army under Winfield Scott scored a major success that ended the war	Who commanded the U.S. Army in the battle against Mexico City?
The treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo was signed in what is now the far north of the city	What treaty was signed?
Many Spanish Colonial style buildings were destroyed, replaced by new much larger Porfirian institutions and many outlying rural zones were transformed into urban or industrialized districts with most having electrical, gas and sewage utilities by 1908	When was most of the urbanization completed? 
Originally the monument was to be the main dome of Diaz's new senate hall, but when the revolution erupted only the dome of the senate hall and its supporting pillars were completed, this was subsequently seen as a symbol by many Mexicans that the Porfirian era was over once and for all and as such, it was turned into a monument to victory over Diaz	What was turned into a monument after the war? 
Plutarco Elias Calles replaced Obregón and culminated the Mexican Revolution	Who was the leader at the end of the Mexican Revolution?
In 1980 half of all the industrial jobs in Mexico were located in Mexico City	How many of the industrial jobs in the county were based in Mexico City in the late 20th century?
On Thursday, September 19, 1985, at 7:19 am local time, Mexico City was struck by an earthquake of magnitude 8	What day of the week did the major earthquake strike Mexico City?
It has a minimum altitude of 2,200 meters above sea level and is surrounded by mountains and volcanoes that reach elevations of over 5,000 metres 	What is the minimum height in meters of the region Mexico City is located in?
Lake Texcoco was drained starting from the 17th century	When did draining of Lake Texcoco begin?
The area receives about 820 millimetres (32	How much rain falls on Mexico City?
These dikes were destroyed during the siege of Tenochtitlan, and during colonial times the Spanish regularly drained the lake to prevent floods	What happened to the dikes the Aztecs built?
By 2014 carbon monoxide pollution had dropped dramatically, while levels of sulfur dioxide and nitrogen dioxide were nearly three times lower than in 1992	Carbon Monoxide levels are about 3 times lower now than in what year?
The introduction of Metrobús bus rapid transit and the Ecobici bike-sharing were among efforts to encourage alternate, greener forms of transportation	What is the bus system called in Mexico City?
The two main candidates to become the capital were Mexico City and Querétaro	What was the other city in the running to become capital of Mexico?
The choice was official on November 18, 1824, and Congress delineated a surface area of two leagues square centered on the Zocalo	When was Mexico City declared the capital?
By that time, the total number of municipalities within the Federal District was twenty-two	How many smaller cities did Mexico City make up at its height?
In 1903, Porfirio Díaz largely reduced the powers of the municipalities within the Federal District	When were the powers of the municipalities of Mexico City first reduced?
"In 1941, the General Anaya borough was merged to the Central Department, which was then renamed ""Mexico City"" "	When was the General Anaya borough officially merged into Mexico City?
 Some political groups even proposed that the Federal District be converted into the 32nd state of the federation	If Mexico City was declared a state, how many states would be in the federation?
In response to the demands, in 1987 the Federal District received a greater degree of autonomy, with the elaboration the first Statute of Government , and the creation of an Assembly of Representatives	When did the Federal District receive more power? 
In 2006, Marcelo Ebrard was elected for the 2006–2012 period	Who was elected to be the head of government in 2006?
The Legislative Assembly of the Federal District is formed, as it is the case in all legislatures in Mexico, by both single-seat and proportional seats, making it a system of parallel voting	What is the local government of Mexico City called?
Even though proportionality is confined to the proportional seats to prevent a part from being overrepresented, several restrictions apply in the assignation of the seats; namely, that no party can have more than 63% of all seats, both uninominal and plurinominal	What is the maximum percentage of seats a single party can control?
In December 2009, the Federal District became the first city in Latin America, and one of very few in the world, to legalize same-sex marriage	When was gay marriage legalized in Mexico City?
"For administrative purposes, the Federal District is divided into 16 ""delegaciones"" or boroughs"	How many boroughs make up Mexico City?
The Historic Center is the oldest part of the city , some of the buildings dating back to the 16th century	What is the oldest part of the city?
West of the Historic Center along Paseo de la Reforma are many of the city's wealthiest neighborhoods such as Polanco, Lomas de Chapultepec, Bosques de las Lomas, Santa Fe, and Interlomas, which are also the city's most important areas of class A office space, corporate headquarters, skyscrapers and shopping malls	Where are many of the wealthy neighborhoods located? 
The far southern boroughs of Xochimilco and Tláhuac have a significant rural population with Milpa Alta being entirely rural	What type of population lives in Tiahuac?
In recent years much of northern Mexico City's industry has moved to nearby municipalities in the State of Mexico	Where is much of the industry now located?
The Human Development Index report of 2005 shows that there were three boroughs with a very high Human Development Index, 12 with a high HDI value (9 above	How many boroughs had very high HDI scores in 2005?
In contrast, the boroughs of Xochimilco , Tláhuac and Iztapalapa presented the lowest HDI values of the Federal District with values of	What borough had the lowest HDI score in the federal district?
The national public healthcare institution for private-sector employees, IMSS, has its largest facilities in Mexico City—including the National Medical Center and the La Raza Medical Center—and has an annual budget of over 6 billion pesos	How large is the budget of the IMSS?
They have phased out diesel buses and mandated new emission controls on new cars; since 1993 all new cars must be fitted with a catalytic converter, which reduces the emissions released	What do new cars in Mexico need to have?
According to a study conducted by PwC, Mexico City had a GDP of $390 billion, ranking it as the eighth richest city in the world after the greater metropolitan areas of Tokyo, New York City, Los Angeles, Chicago, Paris, London and Osaka/Kobe 	What is the GDP of Mexico City?
The economic reforms of President Carlos Salinas de Gortari had a tremendous effect on the city, as a number of businesses, including banks and airlines, were privatized	Who privatized the airlines of Mexico?
In 1921, Mexico City had less than one million inhabitants	How many people lived in Mexico City in 1921?
The net migration rate of the Federal District from 1995 to 2000 was negative	What was the migration rate of Mexico City from 95-2000?
and Canada), from South America , from Central America and the Caribbean ; from Europe , from the Middle East ; and recently from Asia-Pacific 	What countries do most of the South American immigrants come from?
"The Historic center of Mexico City and the ""floating gardens"" of Xochimilco in the southern borough have been declared World Heritage Sites by UNESCO"	Who designated the floating gardens as a World Heritage site?
The most recognizable icon of Mexico City is the golden Angel of Independence on the wide, elegant avenue Paseo de la Reforma, modeled by the order of the Emperor Maximilian of Mexico after the Champs-Élysées in Paris	What is the most popular icon of Mexico City?
Chapultepec Park houses the Chapultepec Castle, now a museum on a hill that overlooks the park and its numerous museums, monuments and the national zoo and the National Museum of Anthropology 	Chapultepec Castle is located where?
In addition, the city has about 160 museums—the world's greatest single metropolitan concentration —over 100 art galleries, and some 30 concert halls, all of which maintain a constant cultural activity during the whole year	How many museums are in Mexico City?
The first portions were opened in 1969 and it has expanded to 12 lines with 195 stations	When was the Mexico City metro system first opened?
The city's first bus rapid transit line, the Metrobús, began operation in June 2005, along Avenida Insurgentes	What is the name of the city's fast bus line?
In the late 1970s many arterial roads were redesigned as ejes viales; high-volume one-way roads that cross, in theory, Mexico City proper from side to side	What are the one-way roads in Mexico city called?
There is an environmental program, called Hoy No Circula , whereby vehicles that have not passed emissions testing are restricted from circulating on certain days according to the ending digit of their license plates; this in an attempt to cut down on pollution and traffic congestion	How do people know which days to not drive their car?
30 percent of the monthly 16 million-peso income from the parking-meter system is earmarked for neighborhood improvements	What is the name of the parking meter system in Mexico City?
This includes North America's second-largest bicycle sharing system, EcoBici, launched in 2010, in which registered residents can get bicycles for 45 minutes with a pre-paid subscription of 300 pesos a year	What is the name of the city's bike sharing system?
Mexico City is served by Mexico City International Airport 	What is the name of the major airport in Mexico City?
In the Mexico City airport, the government engaged in an extensive restructuring program that includes the addition of a new second terminal, which began operations in 2007, and the enlargement of four other airports that, along with Mexico City's airport, comprise the Grupo Aeroportuario del Valle de México, distributing traffic to different regions in Mexico	When did the second terminal open at the Mexico City Airport?
During his annual state-of-the-nation address on September 2, 2014, President of Mexico Enrique Peña Nieto unveiled plans for a new international airport to ease the city's notorious air traffic congestion, tentatively slated for a 2018 opening	When were the new plans of the airport revealed?
While many pieces of pottery and stone-engraving have survived, the great majority of the Amerindian iconography was destroyed during the Conquest of Mexico	When did Mexico City lost most of its artifacts? 
Much of the early colonial art stemmed from the codices , aiming to recover and preserve some Aztec and other Amerindian iconography and history	What comprised most of the early art of Mexico City?
During the 19th century, an important producer of art was the Academia de San Carlos , founded during colonial times, and which later became the Escuela Nacional de Artes Plásticas including painting, sculpture and graphic design, one of UNAM's art schools	What is the large art school in Mexico City?
José Luis Cuevas opted for a modernist style in contrast to the muralist movement associated with social politics	Who was a big proponent of modernism in art?
The Museo Tamayo was opened in the mid-1980s to house the collection of international contemporary art donated by famed Mexican painter Rufino Tamayo	When was the Museo Tamayo opened?
The Museo Soumaya, named after the wife of Mexican magnate Carlos Slim, has the largest private collection of original Rodin sculptures outside Paris	Who is the Museo Soumaya named after?
Another major addition to the city's museum scene is the Museum of Remembrance and Tolerance , inaugurated in early 2011	When did the Museum of Remembrance and Tolerance open?
These include the Mexico City Philharmonic, which performs at the Sala Ollin Yoliztli; the National Symphony Orchestra, whose home base is the Palacio de Bellas Artes , a masterpiece of art nouveau and art decó styles; the Philharmonic Orchestra of the National Autonomous University of Mexico , and the Minería Symphony Orchestra, both of which perform at the Sala Nezahualcóyotl, which was the first wrap-around concert hall in the Western Hemisphere when inaugurated in 1976	Where does the Mexico City Philharmonic perform?
These include the 10,000-seat National Auditorium that regularly schedules the Spanish and English-language pop and rock artists, as well as many of the world's leading performing arts ensembles, the auditorium also broadcasts Grand Opera performances from New York's Metropolitan Opera on giant, high definition screens	How many people does the National Auditorium hold?
Other popular sites for pop-artist performances include the 3,000-seat Teatro Metropolitan, the 15,000-seat Palacio de los Deportes, and the larger 50,000-seat Foro Sol Stadium, where popular international artists perform on a regular basis	How many sets are in the Teatro Metropolitan?
UNAM's main campus, also in the southern part of the city, is home to the Centro Cultural Universitario 	Where is the Centro Cultural Universitario?
The Papalote children's museum, which houses the world's largest dome screen, is located in the wooded park of Chapultepec, near the Museo Tecnológico, and La Feria amusement park	What makes the Papalote children's museum so famous?
The Cineteca Nacional , near the Coyoacán suburb, shows a variety of films, and stages many film festivals, including the annual International Showcase, and many smaller ones ranging from Scandinavian and Uruguayan cinema, to Jewish and LGBT-themed films	Where is the Mexican Film Library located?
Restaurants specializing in the regional cuisines of Mexico's 31 states are available in the city	How many states does Mexico have?
These include Paris' Au Pied de Cochon and Brasserie Lipp, Philippe ; Nobu, Morimoto; Pámpano, owned by Mexican-raised opera legend Plácido Domingo	What opera legend also has a famous restaurant in Mexico City?
Its important venues in Mexico City include the Azteca Stadium, home to the Mexico national football team and giants América, which can seat 91,653 fans, making it the biggest stadium in Latin America	What famous soccer stadium is in Mexico City?
Mexico City remains the only Latin American city to host the Olympic Games, having held the Summer Olympics in 1968, winning bids against Buenos Aires, Lyon and Detroit	What year did Mexico City host the olympics?
The National Autonomous University of Mexico , located in Mexico City, is the largest university on the continent, with more than 300,000 students from all backgrounds	What university is the largest of the continent?
The second largest higher-education institution is the National Polytechnic Institute , which includes among many other relevant centers the Centro de Investigación y de Estudios Avanzados , where varied high-level scientific and technological research is done	What is the second biggest education center in Mexico City?
Unlike those of Mexican states' schools, curricula of Mexico City's public schools is managed by the federal Secretary of Public Education	Who is in charge of the education in Mexico City?
A special case is that of El Colegio Nacional, created during the district's governmental period of Miguel Alemán Valdés to have, in Mexico, an institution similar to the College of France	Who created El Colegio Nacional?
Dozens of daily newspapers are published, including El Universal, Excélsior, Reforma and La Jornada	How many newspaper call Mexico City home?
Consumers may buy in fixed indoor markets, mobile markets , from street vendors, from downtown shops in a street dedicated to a certain type of good, in convenience stores and traditional neighborhood stores, in modern supermarkets, in warehouse and membership stores and the shopping centers that they anchor, in department stores, big-box stores and in modern shopping malls	What are mobile markets in Mexico City called?
"A staple for consumers in the city is the omnipresent ""mercado"""	What are the markets called that are located and run by the boroughs?
"Street vendors play their trade from stalls in the tianguis as well as at non-officially controlled concentrations around metro stations and hospitals; at plazas comerciales, where vendors of a certain ""theme"" (e"	Similar tianguis might set up shop where?
Chapultepec Zoo is located in the first section of Chapultepec Park in the Miguel Hidalgo	Where is the Chapultepec Zoo located?
During Andrés López Obrador's administration a political slogan was introduced: la Ciudad de la Esperanza 	"Who termed the slogan ""la Ciudad de la Esperanza?"""
The city is colloquially known as Chilangolandia after the locals' nickname chilangos	What are locals of Mexico City called?
"Between 2000 and 2004 an average of 478 crimes were reported each day in Mexico City; however, the actual crime rate is thought to be much higher ""since most people are reluctant to report crime"""	How many crimes occurred around the turn of the latest century? 
Napoléon Bonaparte , born Napoleone di Buonaparte; 15 August 1769 – 5 May 1821) was a French military and political leader who rose to prominence during the French Revolution and led several successful campaigns during the Revolutionary Wars	When was Napoleon Bonaparte born?
Napoleon was born in Corsica to a relatively modest family of noble Tuscan ancestry	Where was Napoleon born?
Another victory over the Austrians at the Battle of Marengo in 1800 secured his political power	Napoleon's political power was secured by his victory at which 1800 battle?
Hoping to extend the Continental System, Napoleon invaded Iberia and declared his brother Joseph the King of Spain in 1808	What region did Napoleon invade in an effort to extend the Continental System?
Tensions over rising Polish nationalism and the economic effects of the Continental System led to renewed confrontation with Russia	What nation did Napoleon invade in 1812 to enforce his blockade?
Napoleon was born on 15 August 1769, to Carlo Maria di Buonaparte and Maria Letizia Ramolino, in his family's ancestral home Casa Buonaparte in Ajaccio, the capital of the island of Corsica	Who was Napoleon's father?
In January 1779, he was enrolled at a religious school in Autun	When did Napoleon begin religious schooling in Autun?
Upon graduating in September 1785, Bonaparte was commissioned a second lieutenant in La Fère artillery regiment	When did Napoleon graduate?
Some contemporaries alleged that Bonaparte was put under house arrest at Nice for his association with the Robespierres following their fall in the Thermidorian Reaction in July 1794, but Napoleon's secretary Bourrienne disputed the allegation in his memoirs	Where was Napoleon put under house arrest?
By 1795, Bonaparte had become engaged to Désirée Clary, daughter of François Clary	Who did Napoleon become engaged to in 1795?
He was moved to the Bureau of Topography of the Committee of Public Safety and sought unsuccessfully to be transferred to Constantinople in order to offer his services to the Sultan	After his move to the Committee of Public Safety, where did Napoleon unsuccessfully attempt to be transferred to?
Two days after the marriage, Bonaparte left Paris to take command of the Army of Italy	After his marriage, Napoleon left Paris to lead what army?
French forces in Southern Germany had been defeated by the Archduke Charles in 1796, but the Archduke withdrew his forces to protect Vienna after learning about Napoleon's assault	In what year were the French defeated in Southern Germany by the Archduke Charles?
If he could not use his favourite envelopment strategy, he would take up the central position and attack two co-operating forces at their hinge, swing round to fight one until it fled, then turn to face the other	What was Napoleon's favorite strategy?
The royalists attacked Bonaparte for looting Italy and warned that he might become a dictator	For what action during the Italian campaign did the royalists condemn Bonaparte?
General Bonaparte and his expedition eluded pursuit by the Royal Navy and landed at Alexandria on 1 July	Before landing at Alexandria, Napoleon succeeded in evading what military entity?
On 1 August, the British fleet under Horatio Nelson captured or destroyed all but two French vessels in the Battle of the Nile, defeating Bonaparte's goal to strengthen the French position in the Mediterranean	In what battle did the British fleet seize or destroy most of the French vessels in Egypt?
Bonaparte began with an army of 13,000 men; 1,500 were reported missing, 1,200 died in combat, and thousands perished from disease—mostly bubonic plague	How many men were in Napoleon's army when the battle began?
He drew together an alliance with director Emmanuel Joseph Sieyès, his brother Lucien, speaker of the Council of Five Hundred Roger Ducos, director Joseph Fouché, and Talleyrand, and they overthrew the Directory by a coup d'état on 9 November 1799 , closing down the council of five hundred	Napoleon's ally Roger Ducos was the speaker for what organization?
He drafted the Constitution of the Year VIII and secured his own election as First Consul, taking up residence at the Tuileries	 What was the name of the constitution drafted by Napoleon?
In the spring of 1800, Napoleon and his troops crossed the Swiss Alps into Italy, aiming to surprise the Austrian armies that had reoccupied the peninsula when Napoleon was still in Egypt	In what year did Napoleon and his troops cross the Swiss Alps and enter Italy?
Although critics have blamed Napoleon for several tactical mistakes preceding the battle, they have also praised his audacity for selecting a risky campaign strategy, choosing to invade the Italian peninsula from the north when the vast majority of French invasions came from the west, near or along the coastline	From what direction did Napoleon elect to invade Italy?
Napoleon's triumph at Marengo secured his political authority and boosted his popularity back home, but it did not lead to an immediate peace	Where did the victory for Napoleon that secured his political power and increased his popularity in France occur?
After a decade of constant warfare, France and Britain signed the Treaty of Amiens in March 1802, bringing the Revolutionary Wars to an end	What 1802 treaty between Britain and France ended the Revolutionary Wars?
The brief peace in Europe allowed Napoleon to focus on the French colonies abroad	During the short peace in Europe, where did Napoleon turn his focus?
During the Consulate, Napoleon faced several royalist and Jacobin assassination plots, including the Conspiration des poignards in October 1800 and the Plot of the Rue Saint-Nicaise two months later	What was the name of the assassination plot against Napoleon also known as the Infernal Machine?
To expand his power, Napoleon used these assassination plots to justify the creation of an imperial system based on the Roman model	The imperial system Napoleon created was based on what model?
Napoleon's coronation took place on December 2, 1804	On what date did Napoleon's coronation occur?
Before the formation of the Third Coalition, Napoleon had assembled an invasion force, the Armée d'Angleterre, around six camps at Boulogne in Northern France	What was the name of the invasion force Napoleon assembled before the creation of the Third Coalition?
Napoleon knew that the French fleet could not defeat the Royal Navy in a head-to-head battle, so he planned to lure it away from the English Channel through diversionary tactics	Napoleon acknowledged that the fleet of France was no match for what rival fleet in direct combat?
Facing a potential invasion from his continental enemies, he decided to strike first and turned his army's sights from the English Channel to the Rhine	By August 1805, Napoleon changed the primary target of his army's efforts from the English Channel to what area?
Following the Ulm Campaign, French forces managed to capture Vienna in November	In November, after the Ulm Campaign, what city was captured by French forces?
The Allied disaster at Austerlitz significantly shook the faith of Emperor Francis in the British-led war effort	The Allied defeat at what location caused Emperor Francis to doubt the chances of the war effort?
Napoleon continued to entertain a grand scheme to establish a French presence in the Middle East in order to put pressure on Britain and Russia, and perhaps form an alliance with the Ottoman Empire	Napoleon's master plan was to establish a French presence in what part of the world?
After Austerlitz, Napoleon established the Confederation of the Rhine in 1806	What is the name of the political body composed of German states established by Napoleon in 1806?
Napoleon invaded Prussia with 180,000 troops, rapidly marching on the right bank of the River Saale	How many troops did Napoleon use for the invasion of Prussia?
Following his triumph, Napoleon imposed the first elements of the Continental System through the Berlin Decree issued in November 1806	In what 1806 proclamation did Napoleon begin to impose the Continental System?
Alexander faced pressure from his brother, Duke Constantine, to make peace with Napoleon	What is the name of the Duke who pressured Alexander to make peace with Napoleon?
The settlements at Tilsit gave Napoleon time to organize his empire	Where did the agreements that gave Napoleon time to structure his empire take place?
On 17 October 1807, 24,000 French troops under General Junot crossed the Pyrenees with Spanish cooperation and headed towards Portugal to enforce Napoleon's orders	When did Napoleon's invasion of Portugal begin?
At the Congress of Erfurt in October 1808, Napoleon hoped to keep Russia on his side during the upcoming struggle in Spain and during any potential conflict against Austria	At which 1808 meeting did Napoleon attempt to keep the Russians on his side for future conflicts?
Napoleon would end up leaving Iberia in order to deal with the Austrians in Central Europe, but the Peninsular War continued on long after his absence	Napoleon left Iberia for Central Europe to deal with whom?
Frederick William of Prussia initially promised to help the Austrians, but reneged before conflict began	Who was the Prussian ruler who at first claimed he would help Austria in its battle with France, but later refused to?
In the early morning of 10 April, leading elements of the Austrian army crossed the Inn River and invaded Bavaria	On what date did the Austrian army first cross the Inn River?
By 17 May, the main Austrian army under Charles had arrived on the Marchfeld	On what date did the main Austrian army arrive at the Marchfield?
After the setback at Aspern-Essling, Napoleon took more than six weeks in planning and preparing for contingencies before he made another attempt at crossing the Danube	Approximately how long did Napoleon take to prepare another Danube crossing after his defeat at Aspern-Essling?
In the Kingdom of Holland, the British launched the Walcheren Campaign to open up a second front in the war and to relieve the pressure on the Austrians	What was the name of the campaign by the British in Holland that created a second front in the war?
The resulting Treaty of Schönbrunn in October 1809 was the harshest that France had imposed on Austria in recent memory	When was the Treaty of Schönbrunn signed?
Napoleon turned his focus to domestic affairs after the war	After the war, what did Napoleon focus on?
In 1808, Napoleon and Czar Alexander met at the Congress of Erfurt to preserve the Russo-French alliance	What meeting did Napoleon and Czar Alexander participate in in 1808?
In an attempt to gain increased support from Polish nationalists and patriots, Napoleon termed the war the Second Polish War—the First Polish War had been the Bar Confederation uprising by Polish nobles against Russia in 1768	What did Napoleon name the war with Russia in an effort to garner support from Poland?
The Russians avoided Napoleon's objective of a decisive engagement and instead retreated deeper into Russia	To avoid direct fighting with Napoleon, the Russians retreated into which country?
The Russians eventually offered battle outside Moscow on 7 September: the Battle of Borodino resulted in approximately 44,000 Russian and 35,000 French dead, wounded or captured, and may have been the bloodiest day of battle in history up to that point in time	Outside what city did the Battle of Borodino occur?
Napoleon entered the city, assuming its fall would end the war and Alexander would negotiate peace	When Napoleon entered Moscow, he expected an offer of peace from whom?
The Allies offered peace terms in the Frankfurt proposals in November 1813	The Allies suggested peace terms in which set of proposals?
Napoleon, expecting to win the war, delayed too long and lost this opportunity; by December the Allies had withdrawn the offer	The Allies took back their offer to Napoleon in what month?
On 1 April, Alexander addressed the Sénat conservateur	On what date did Alexander speak to the Sénat conservateur?
In the Treaty of Fontainebleau, the Allies exiled him to Elba, an island of 12,000 inhabitants in the Mediterranean, 20 km off the Tuscan coast	In which treaty was Napoleon exiled?
The 5th Regiment was sent to intercept him and made contact just south of Grenoble on March 7, 1815	What military unit was charged with intercepting Napoleon?
Napoleon returned to Paris and found that both the legislature and the people had turned against him	Where did Napoleon return and find that the populace and government had turned against him?
In 1840, Louis Philippe I obtained permission from the British to return Napoleon's remains to France	In what year did Louis Philippe I get permission to return Napoleon's remains to France?
In 1955, the diaries of Napoleon's valet, Louis Marchand, were published	When were the diaries of Napoleon's valet published?
They maintained that the potassium tartrate used in his treatment prevented his stomach from expelling these compounds and that his thirst was a symptom of the poison	What substance used in Napoleon's treatment is it suggested prevented his stomach from expelling arsenic compounds?
 Studies published in 2007 and 2008 dismissed evidence of arsenic poisoning, and confirmed evidence of peptic ulcer and gastric cancer as the cause of death	Studies published in 2007 and 2008 dismiss what possible cause of Napoleon's death?
Napoleon had a civil marriage with Joséphine de Beauharnais, without religious ceremony	What type of marriage did Napoleon have with Joséphine de Beauharnais?
Napoleon was crowned Emperor Napoleon I on 2 December 1804 at Notre Dame de Paris by Pope Pius VII	When was Napoleon crowned Emperor?
Seeking national reconciliation between revolutionaries and Catholics, the Concordat of 1801 was signed on 15 July 1801 between Napoleon and Pope Pius VII	What is the name of the 1801 document that aimed for reconcilliation between revolutionaries and Catholics?
While the Concordat restored much power to the papacy, the balance of church-state relations had tilted firmly in Napoleon's favour	The Concodat restored significant power to what position?
""" At 5 ft 6 in , he was not physically imposing but in one-on-one situations he typically had a hypnotic impact on people and seemingly bent the strongest leaders to his will"	How tall was Napoleon, in feet and inches?
"Critics said he won many battles simply because of luck; Napoleon responded, ""Give me lucky generals,"" aware that ""luck"" comes to leaders who recognize opportunity, and seize it"	According to critics, what was the reason Napoleon won many battles?
He reorganized France itself to supply the men and money needed for great wars	What did Napoleon reorganize to supply the personnel and money required to fight great wars?
During the Napoleonic Wars he was taken seriously by the British press as a dangerous tyrant, poised to invade	Which foreign news service viewed Napoleon as a dangerous tyrant?
When he became First Consul and later Emperor, Napoleon eschewed his general's uniform and habitually wore the simple green colonel uniform of a colonel of the Chasseur à Cheval of the Imperial Guard, the regiment that often served as his personal escort, with a large bicorne	After becoming First Consul, Napoleon typically wore the uniform of which rank, rather than general?
Napoleon instituted lasting reforms, including higher education, a tax code, road and sewer systems, and established the Banque de France, the first central bank in French history	What was the name of the first central bank in France, that Napoleon established?
Napoleon's set of civil laws, the Code Civil—now often known as the Napoleonic Code—was prepared by committees of legal experts under the supervision of Jean Jacques Régis de Cambacérès, the Second Consul	What was the contemporary term for the set of civil laws created by Napoleon?
His opponents learned from Napoleon's innovations	Who learned from Napoleon's innovations?
The official introduction of the metric system in September 1799 was unpopular in large sections of French society	When was the metric system officially introduced?
Napoleon's educational reforms laid the foundation of a modern system of education in France and throughout much of Europe	What acts by Napoleon laid the groundwork for modernized Education in France and much of Europe?
""" Many historians have concluded that he had grandiose foreign policy ambitions"	How have many historians described Napoleon's foreign policy ambitions?
Napoleon ended lawlessness and disorder in post-Revolutionary France	Who put a stop to the lack of law and presence of disorder in post-Revolutionary France?
Napoleon institutionalised plunder of conquered territories: French museums contain art stolen by Napoleon's forces from across Europe	What practice in defeated territories became institutionalized under Napoleon?
"Critics argue Napoleon's true legacy must reflect the loss of status for France and needless deaths brought by his rule: historian Victor Davis Hanson writes, ""After all, the military record is unquestioned—17 years of wars, perhaps six million Europeans dead, France bankrupt, her overseas colonies lost"	Which historian describes Napoleon's legacy in terms of years spent at war, numbers of European dead, and France's bankruptcy and loss of colonies?
Napoleon's use of propaganda contributed to his rise to power, legitimated his régime, and established his image for posterity	Napoleon's skillful employment of what technique aided his rise to power, legitimized his rule, and improved his posthumous reputation?
There were also subversive activities celebrating anniversaries of Napoleon's life and reign and disrupting royal celebrations—they demonstrated the prevailing and successful goal of the varied supporters of Napoleon to constantly destabilize the Bourbon regime	Anniversaries of Napoleon's life and reign were sometimes celebrated in an effort to disrupt what?
Datta shows that, following the collapse of militaristic Boulangism in the late 1880s, the Napoleonic legend was divorced from party politics and revived in popular culture	When did militaristic Boulangism collapse?
After the fall of Napoleon, not only was Napoleonic Code retained by conquered countries including the Netherlands, Belgium, parts of Italy and Germany, but has been used as the basis of certain parts of law outside Europe including the Dominican Republic, the US state of Louisiana and the Canadian province of Quebec	After the fall of Napoleon, many countries retained what system of law?
Napoleon could be considered one of the founders of modern Germany	Napoleon is viewed by some as a founder of what modern nation?
Napoleon married Joséphine de Beauharnais in 1796, when he was 26; she was a 32-year-old widow whose first husband had been executed during the Revolution	Who did Napoleon marry in 1796?
Napoleon acknowledged one illegitimate son: Charles Léon by Eléonore Denuelle de La Plaigne	What was the name of the illegitimate son acknowledged by Napoleon?
Of approximately 100 million native speakers of German in the world, roughly 80 million consider themselves Germans	Approximately how many of the world population speak German as a native language? 
Conflict between the Germanic tribes and the forces of Rome under Julius Caesar forced major Germanic tribes to retreat to the east bank of the Rhine	What emperor forced the Germanic tribes to the east side of the Rhine?
The Germanic peoples during the Migrations Period came into contact with other peoples; in the case of the populations settling in the territory of modern Germany, they encountered Celts to the south, and Balts and Slavs towards the east	During the Migrations period Germans would encounter what groups in the east?
These five tribes, sometimes with inclusion of the Frisians, are considered as the major groups to take part in the formation of the Germans	how many tribes are credited with the creation of the modern day germans?
"The process was gradual and lacked any clear definition, and the use of exonyms designating ""the Germans"" develops only during the High Middle Ages"	What period in history do we see the emergence of German culture?
After Christianization, the Roman Catholic Church and local rulers led German expansion and settlement in areas inhabited by Slavs and Balts, known as Ostsiedlung	The Expansion of Germany by the Catholic Church into the areas of the Slavs and balts is know as what?
At the same time, naval innovations led to a German domination of trade in the Baltic Sea and parts of Eastern Europe through the Hanseatic League	German's domination of trade in the Eastern Europe was credited to what?
By the Middle Ages, large numbers of Jews lived in the Holy Roman Empire and had assimilated into German culture, including many Jews who had previously assimilated into French culture and had spoken a mixed Judeo-French language	By what time period had many of the Jewish population joined the Holy Roman Empire?
The Napoleonic Wars were the cause of the final dissolution of the Holy Roman Empire, and ultimately the cause for the quest for a German nation state in 19th-century German nationalism	What was one of the main factors that caused the dissolve of the Holy Roman Empire?
In 1866, the feud between Austria and Prussia finally came to a head	When did the strife between Austria and Prussia erupt?
In 1870, after France attacked Prussia, Prussia and its new allies in Southern Germany were victorious in the Franco-Prussian War	When did France attack Prussia? 
"The Nazis, led by Adolf Hitler, attempted to unite all the people they claimed were ""Germans"" into one realm, including ethnic Germans in eastern Europe, many of whom had emigrated more than one hundred fifty years before and developed separate cultures in their new lands"	"What leader tried to unite all people considered themselves ""German"""
After World War II, eastern European countries such as the Soviet Union, Poland, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Romania and Yugoslavia expelled the Germans from their territories	With the conclusion of World War 2 what did most Eastern Europe countries do with their German citizens?
The event of the Protestant Reformation and the politics that ensued has been cited as the origins of German identity that arose in response to the spread of a common German language and literature	What is credited with the origins of the German identity?
"Persons who speak German as their first language, look German and whose families have lived in Germany for generations are considered ""most German"", followed by categories of diminishing Germanness such as Aussiedler , Restdeutsche , Auswanderer , German speakers in German-speaking nations such as Austrians, and finally people of German emigrant background who no longer speak German"	Residence that speak German as their mother tongue and families have been in place for generations are often consider?
The native language of Germans is German, a West Germanic language, related to and classified alongside English and Dutch, and sharing many similarities with the North Germanic and Scandinavian languages	What is the native language of Germans?
United States is home to approximately 50 million German Americans or one third of the German diaspora, making it the largest centre of German-descended people outside Germany	How many German Americans are there?
German philosophers have helped shape western philosophy from as early as the Middle Ages 	Who is a German philosopher from the middle ages?
Wilhelm Conrad Röntgen discovered X-rays, an accomplishment that made him the first winner of the Nobel Prize in Physics in 1901	Who discovered X-Rays?
In the field of music, Germany claims some of the most renowned classical composers of the world including Bach, Mozart and Beethoven, who marked the transition between the Classical and Romantic eras in Western classical music	From which country is Bach, Mozart and Beethoven from?
As of 2008, Germany is the fourth largest music market in the world and has exerted a strong influence on Dance and Rock music, and pioneered trance music	In 2008,, where was Germany ranked as a world music market?
German cinema dates back to the very early years of the medium with the work of Max Skladanowsky	Who was the original German cinematic?
More recently, films such as Das Boot , The Never Ending Story Run Lola Run , Das Experiment , Good Bye Lenin	In what year was the never ending story made?
In 1517, Martin Luther challenged the Catholic Church as he saw it as a corruption of Christian faith	In what year did Martin Luther challenge the Catholic Church?
8% of the total population of Germany, followed by the Evangelical Protestants at 30	What religion is the North and East part of Germany?
Sport forms an integral part of German life, as demonstrated by the fact that 27 million Germans are members of a sports club and an additional twelve million pursue such an activity individually	How many Germans are members of sports clubs?
Since the 2006 FIFA World Cup, the internal and external evaluation of Germany's national image has changed	What year was the turning point for Germany in the Nation Brands Index?
Pan-Germanism's origins began in the early 19th century following the Napoleonic Wars	In what century did the Pan-Germanisms origins begin?
By the 1860s the Kingdom of Prussia and the Austrian Empire were the two most powerful nations dominated by German-speaking elites	Who were the two most powerful nations in the 1860's?
At the treaty of Versailles Germany was substantially reduced in size	What greatly reduced the size of Germany after WWI?
"During a study in 2009, in which some 2,000 German citizens age 14 and upwards filled out a questionnaire, nearly 60% of those surveyed agreed with the sentiment ""I'm proud to be German"	What percentage of 14 year olds said they were proud to be German in 2009?
"In the midst of the European sovereign-debt crisis, Radek Sikorski, Poland's Foreign Minister, stated in November 2011, ""I will probably be the first Polish foreign minister in history to say so, but here it is: I fear German power less than I am beginning to fear German inactivity"	Who was Poland's foreign minister in 2011?
Papua New Guinea has stated that it might join ASEAN, and is currently an observer	Which country has stated that it might join ASEAN?
The Andaman and Nicobar Islands of India are geographically considered part of Southeast Asia	Which Island is geographically considered a part of Southeast Asia?
They arrived in Indonesia around 2000 BC,and as they spread through the archipelago, they often settled along coastal areas and confined indigenous peoples such as Negritos of the Philippines or Papuans of New Guinea to inland regions	When did the Austronesian people arrive in indonesia?
The Jawa Dwipa Hindu kingdom in Java and Sumatra existed around 200 BCE	Which Hindu kingdom existed around 200 BCE?
The Majapahit Empire was an Indianised kingdom based in eastern Java from 1293 to around 1500	Which Indianised kingdom was based in eastern java?
The Indian Chola navy crossed the ocean and attacked the Srivijaya kingdom of Sangrama Vijayatungavarman in Kadaram , the capital of the powerful maritime kingdom was sacked and the king was taken captive	Which kingdom did the Chola navy attack during the 11th century?
The ruler of the region's most important port, Malacca Sultanate, embraced Islam in the 15th century, heralding a period of accelerated conversion of Islam throughout the region as Islam provided a positive force among the ruling and trading classes	In the 15th century, the ruler of which port embraced Islam?
During World War II, Imperial Japan invaded most of the former western colonies	The western colonies were invaded by whom during World War II?
Indonesia is the largest country in Southeast Asia and it also the largest archipelago in the world by size 	Name the largest country in Southeast Asia.
The climate in Southeast Asia is mainly tropical–hot and humid all year round with plentiful rainfall	What is the climate like in Southeast Asia?
The Indonesian Archipelago is split by the Wallace Line	Name the line that splits the Indonesian Archipelago?
According to Conservation International, marine surveys suggest that the marine life diversity in the Raja Ampat is the highest recorded on Earth	Where on Earth is the highest marine activity recorded?
Predictions have been made that more than 40% of the animal and plant species in Southeast Asia could be wiped out in the 21st century	What percentage of plant and animal species extinction is predicted in the 21st century?
A wide range of commodities originated in the region, but especially important were spices such as pepper, ginger, cloves, and nutmeg	Name some important commodities that originated in Southeast asian region?
The overseas Chinese community has played a large role in the development of the economies in the region	The origin of which community can be traced to the 16th century?
Oil reserves in Southeast Asia are plentiful	What reserves are abundant in Southeast Asia?
Tourism has been a key factor in economic development for many Southeast Asian countries, especially Cambodia	Of the Southeast Asian countries, which one's key economic development is based on Tourism?
Southeast Asia has an area of approximately 4,000,000 km2 (1	What is the approximate area of Southeast Asia?
In modern times, the Javanese are the largest ethnic group in Southeast Asia, with more than 100 million people, mostly concentrated in Java, Indonesia	name the largest ethnic group in Southeast Asia.
Islam is the most widely practised religion in Southeast Asia, numbering approximately 240 million adherents which translate to about 40% of the entire population, with majorities in Indonesia, Brunei, Malaysia and in Southern Philippines with Indonesia as the largest and most populated Muslim country around the world	Which religion is widely practiced in Southeast Asia?
Christianity also predominates in the rest of the part of the Philippines, New Guinea and Timor	Which is Asia's largest christian nation?
Also Brunei shows a strong influence from Arabia	Arabia has a strong influence in which Southeast Asian country?
Most of Southeast Asia introduced dance into their court; in particular, Cambodian royal ballet represented them in the early 7th century before the Khmer Empire, which was highly influenced by Indian Hinduism	Where did the Southeast Asians introduce their dance?
Puppetry and shadow plays were also a favoured form of entertainment in past centuries, a famous one being Wayang from Indonesia	What were the favorite forms of entertainment in Southeast Asia?
It has been pointed out that Khmer and Indonesian classical arts were concerned with depicting the life of the gods, but to the Southeast Asian mind the life of the gods was the life of the peoples themselves—joyous, earthy, yet divine	What did the Khmer & Indonesian classical arts depict of?
Note each palm leaf section was only several lines, written longitudinally across the leaf, and bound by twine to the other sections	Which form of writing extended before the invention of paper?
It is owned and operated by The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints , and, excluding online students, is the largest of any religious university and the third largest private university in the United States, with 29,672 on-campus students	How many students attend BYU on campus?
Many students either delay enrollment or take a hiatus from their studies to serve as Mormon missionaries	For what reason to many student's postpone their enrollment to BYU?
The university's primary focus is on undergraduate education, but it also has 68 master's and 25 doctoral degree programs	What is BYU's main focal point?
On October 16, 1875, Brigham Young, then president of the LDS Church, personally purchased the Lewis Building after previously hinting that a school would be built in Draper, Utah in 1867	When was the first property for what would become BYU acquired?
The school broke off from the University of Deseret and became Brigham Young Academy, with classes commencing on January 3, 1876	What college did BYU separate from to become its own entity?
In 1903, Brigham Young Academy was dissolved, and was replaced by two institutions: Brigham Young High School, and Brigham Young University	In what year was Brigham Young Academy split into two separate schools?
He was the first BYU president to have a doctoral degree	What sort of credentials did Franklin S. Harris have?
He believed that one of the school's greatest strengths was its religious nature and that this should be taken advantage of rather than hidden	What did Jeffrey R. Holland believe to be BYU's strongest asset?
Bateman was also president during the September 11th attacks in 2001	What infamous event occurred during Bateman's term as president?
BYU accepted 49 percent of the 11,423 people who applied for admission in the summer term and fall semester of 2013	What percentage of applicants did BYU accept for it's summer term and fall semester in 2013?
]] Forbes Magazine ranked it as the No	Who ranked BYU as the best college in Utah?
5 ranking by BusinessWeek for its undergraduate programs, and its MBA program was ranked by several sources: No	Who ranked BYU's Marriott School of Mangement as No. 5 for it's undergrad programs in 2009?
Harvey Fletcher, also an alumnus of BYU, inventor of stereophonic sound, went on to carry out the now famous oil-drop experiment with Robert Millikan, and was later Founding Dean of the BYU College of Engineering	Which BYU college was founded by former alumnus Harvey Fletcher?
Over three quarters of the student body has some proficiency in a second language 	What percentage of the student body of BYU has some proficiency in a second language?
Nearly 2,000 students take advantage of these programs yearly	How manys students take advantage of BYU's study abroad programs?
For example, BYU's International Cinema, featuring films in several languages, is the largest and longest-running university-run foreign film program in the country	What is the largest and longest-running university-run foreign film program in the U.S.?
"In 1992, the university drafted a new Statement on Academic Freedom, specifying that limitations may be placed upon ""expression with students or in public that: contradicts or opposes, rather than analyzes or discusses, fundamental Church doctrine or policy; deliberately attacks or derides the Church or its general leaders; or violates the Honor Code because the expression is dishonest, illegal, unchaste, profane, or unduly disrespectful of others"	In what year did BYU draft a new Statement on Academic Freedom?
Brigham Young University is a part of the Church Educational System of LDS Church	Which system is BYU part of?
BYU's Winter semester ends earlier than most universities in April since there is no Spring break, thus allowing students to pursue internships and other summer activities earlier	Why does BYU's Winter semester end earlier than most colleges?
3 km2) nestled at the base of the Wasatch Mountains and includes 295 buildings	How many buildings are on BYU's main campus?
BYU's Museum of Art, for example, is one of the largest and most attended art museums in the Mountain West	Which BYU building is one of the most attended art museus in the Mountain West?
The de Jong Concert Hall seats 1282 people and is named for Gerrit de Jong Jr	How many people does the de Jong Concert Hall seat?
""" BYU is working to increase the energy efficiency of its buildings by installing various speed drives on all pumps and fans, replacing incandescent lighting with fluorescent lighting, retrofitting campus buildings with low-E reflective glass, and upgraded roof insulation to prevent heat loss"	What is BYU working to increase by installing various speed drives on all pumps and fans?
The BYU Ballroom Dance Company is known as one of the best formation ballroom dance teams in the world, having won the U	What BYU group is known as one of the best formation ballroom dance teams in the world?
BYU has 21 NCAA varsity teams	How many NCAA varsity teams does BYU have?
"Maeser when the Church purchased the school: ""I want you to remember that you ought not to teach even the alphabet or the multiplication tables without the Spirit of God"	What did Brigham Young instruct Karl G. Maeser to not teach even the alphabet without?
"BYU has been considered by some Latter-day Saints, as well as some university and church leaders, to be ""The Lord's university"""	What phrase have some Latter-day Saints used in reference to BYU's mission as ambassador to the world for the LDS Church?
BYU mandates that its students who are members of the LDS Church be religiously active	What does BYU mandate of it's student members of the LDS Church to be?
In October 2012, the LDS Church announced at its general conference that young men could serve a mission after they turn 18 and have graduated from high school, rather than after age 19 under the old policy	At what age, since 2012, are men allowed to serve a mission after high school graduation?
"Maeser created the ""Domestic Organization"", which was a group of teachers who would visit students at their homes to see that they were following the schools moral rules prohibiting obscenity, profanity, smoking, and alcohol consumption"	What group did President Maeser create that sent teachers to student's homes to verify they were following the school's moral rules?
The high rate of enrollment at the university by members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints results in an amplification of LDS cultural norms; BYU was ranked by The Princeton Review in 2008 as 14th in the nation for having the happiest students and highest quality of life	How was BYU ranked by The Princeton Review for having the happiest students and highest quality of life in 2008?
"One of the characteristics of BYU most often pointed out is its reputation for emphasizing a ""marriage culture"""	What is one of BYU's characteristics that is most often pointed out through reputation?
"As mentioned earlier, The Princeton Review has rated BYU the ""#1 stone cold sober school"" in the nation for several years running, an honor which the late LDS Church president Gordon B"	Who rated BYU as the #1 stone cold sober school in the nation for several years?
The BYU Broadcasting Technical Operations Center is home to three television production studios, two television control rooms, radio studios, radio performance space, and master control operations	How many television production studios is BYU Broadcasting Technical Operations Center home to?
The University also graduated Nobel Prize winner Paul D	What is former alumnus Paul D. Boyer known for being?
In literature and journalism, BYU has produced several best-selling authors, including Orson Scott Card '75, Brandon Sanderson '00 & '05, Ben English '98, and Stephenie Meyer '95	Where did best selling author Stephenie Meyer graduate from in 1995?
Professional basketball players include three-time NBA champion Danny Ainge '81, 1952 NBA Rookie of the Year and 4-time NBA All-Star Mel Hutchins '51, three-time Olympic medalist and Hall of Famer Krešimir Ćosić '73, and consensus 2011 national college player of the year Jimmer Fredette '11, currently with the New York Knicks organization	Which three-time Olympic medalist and Hall of Famer graduated from BYU?
Department stores today have sections that sell the following: clothing, furniture, home appliances, toys, cosmetics, gardening, toiletries, sporting goods, do it yourself, paint, and hardware and additionally select other lines of products such as food, books, jewelry, electronics, stationery, photographic equipment, baby products, and products for pets	What sorts of departments might one see in a major department store?
As the Industrial Revolution accelerated economy expansion, the affluent middle-class grew in size and wealth	What social group grew as a result of the industrial revolution? 
Increasingly, women became the major shoppers and middle-class households	Who became the predominant shoppers for individual households in the nineteenth century? 
Selfridges was established in 1909 by American-born Harry Gordon Selfridge on Oxford Street	Who founded Selfridges in 1909?
The Paris department store had its roots in the magasin de nouveautés, or novelty store; the first, the Tapis Rouge, was created in 1784	What were the origins of the Paris department store? 
A novelty shop called Au Bon Marché had been founded in Paris in 1838 to sell lace, ribbons, sheets, mattresses, buttons, umbrellas and other assorted goods	What store was founded in Paris, in 1838, which sold a wide variety of products? 
The Grands Magasins Dufayel was a huge department store with inexpensive prices built in 1890 in the northern part of Paris, where it reached a very large new customer base in the working class	Where was The Grands Magasins Dufayel built? 
Arnold, Constable was the first American department store	"What is recognized as the ""first"" department store in America?"
"In New York City in 1846, Alexander Turney Stewart established the ""Marble Palace"" on Broadway, between Chambers and Reade streets"	"Where was the ""Marble Palace"" built in 1846?"
In 1877, John Wanamaker opened the United State's first modern department store in a former Pennsylvania Railroad freight terminal in Philadelphia	"Who opened the original ""modern"" department store in America?"
Marshall Field & Company originated in 1852	In what year was Marshall Field and company established? 
David Jones was started by David Jones, a Welsh merchant who met Hobart businessman Charles Appleton in London	What occupation did David Jones have?
When Russian-born migrant, Sidney Myer, came to Australia in 1899 he formed the Myer retail group with his brother, Elcon Myer	When did Sydney Myer come to Australia? 
From its origins in the fur trade, the Hudson's Bay Company is the oldest corporation in North America and was the largest department store operator in Canada until the mid-1980s, with locations across the country	What business was the Hudson's Bay Company originally involved in? 
Since then, they have suffered from strong competition from specialist stores	What is one type of competition department stores face? 
Since the opening policy in 1979, the Chinese department stores also develops swiftly along with the fast-growing economy	What began the influx of Chinese department stores?
The first department stores Lane Crawford was opened in 1850 by Scots Thomas Ash Lane and Ninian Crawford on Des Voeux Road, Hong Kong Island	What year did Lane Crawford open? 
In Denmark you find three department store chains: Magasin , Illum , Salling 	Currently, what is the largest department store chain in Denmark? 
France's major upscale department stores are Galeries Lafayette and Le Printemps, which both have flagship stores on Boulevard Haussmann in Paris and branches around the country	What are two main department stores in France?
Next to some smaller, independent department stores these are Karstadt , GALERIA Kaufhof 	What department store was taken over by Nicolas Berggruen in 2010?
The middle up segment is mainly occupied by Metro Department Store originated from Singapore and Sogo from Japan	Where did the Metro Department store originally begin?
Parkson enters by acquiring local brand Centro Department Store in 2011	What store did Parkson buy in 2011? 
Delany's New Mart was opened in 1853 in Dublin, Ireland	What department store was founded in 1853?
Mexico has a large number of department stores based in Mexico, of which the most traditional are El Palacio de Hierro and Liverpool , with its middle income sister store Fabricas de Francia	What Mexican department store typically caters to high-end goods?
These offer high-end and luxury items	What sorts of goods do the most popular department stores in New Zealand offer? 
Panama's first department stores such as Bazaar Francés, La Dalia and La Villa de Paris started as textile retailers at the turn of the nineteenth century	How did Panama's department stores originally begin? 
established in 1877 in Iloilo by the Englishman Henry Hoskyn, nephew of Nicholas Loney, the first British vice-consul in Iloilo	When was the first department store in the Philippines opened?
La New York was a Puerto Rican department store	What department store in Puerto Rico is named after an American city?
The site where the Saint Petersburg Passage sprawls had been devoted to trade since the city's foundation in the early 18th century	When was Saint Petersburg established? 
Socialism confronted consumerism in the chain State Department Stores , set up by Lenin in 1921 as a model retail enterprise	What group was established in 1921 in response to the clash between socialism and consumerism? 
In the 21st century the most famous department store in Russia is GUM in Moscow, followed by TsUM and the Petrovsky Passage	Where is the most notable Russian department store located?
Lotte Department Store is the largest, operating more than 40 stores 	What department store chain operates the most stores? 
The first department store in Spain was Almacenes el Siglo opened in October 1881 in Barcelona	What was the name of the first Spanish department store?
John Lewis Newcastle in Newcastle upon Tyne, is the world's oldest Department Store	What is the former name of John Lewis Newcastle? 
Kendal Milne and Faulkner purchased the business in 1835	Who purchased a small shop in 1835, which would eventually become Kendals?
Washington, for example, after 1887 had Woodward & Lothrop and Garfinckel's starting in 1905	When did Garfinckel's begin operating in Washington? 
Penney had four stores in 1908, 312 in 1920, and 1452 in 1930	How many stores was J. C. Penny operating in 1930?
The solution in 1954 was to open the Northland Center in nearby Southfield, just beyond the city limits	In what year did Hudson's address the issue of parking within cities?
George Dayton had founded his Dayton's Dry Goods store in Minneapolis in 1902 and the AMC cooperative in 1912	Who opened Dayton's Dry Goods?
In 1849, Horne's began operations and soon became a leading Pittsburgh department store	In what year did Horne began doing business?
The German equivalent was used with the founding of the North German Confederation whose constitution granted legislative power over the protection of intellectual property to the confederation	Which constitution gave legislative power to protect intellectual property?
The term can be found used in an October 1845 Massachusetts Circuit Court ruling in the patent case Davoll et al	When was the patent case Davoll et al. v. Brown ruled on?
Jewish law includes several considerations whose effects are similar to those of modern intellectual property laws, though the notion of intellectual creations as property does not seem to exist – notably the principle of Hasagat Ge'vul was used to justify limited-term publisher copyright in the 16th century	Jewish law includes which principle used to justify copyright?
A patent is a form of right granted by the government to an inventor, giving the owner the right to exclude others from making, using, selling, offering to sell, and importing an invention for a limited period of time, in exchange for the public disclosure of the invention	Who grants a patent?
""" By exchanging limited exclusive rights for disclosure of inventions and creative works, society and the patentee/copyright owner mutually benefit, and an incentive is created for inventors and authors to create and disclose their work"	What do patents create an incentive for inventors to do?
economy is more than US$5 trillion and creates employment for an estimated 18 million American people	How much was the worth of intellectual property to the U.S. economy in 2013?
Patent infringement typically is caused by using or selling a patented invention without permission from the patent holder	What is caused by using or selling a patented invention without permission?
The ACTA trade agreement, signed in May 2011 by the United States, Japan, Switzerland, and the EU, and which has not entered into force, requires that its parties add criminal penalties, including incarceration and fines, for copyright and trademark infringement, and obligated the parties to active police for infringement	When was the ACTA trade agreement signed?
Trademark infringement occurs when one party uses a trademark that is identical or confusingly similar to a trademark owned by another party, in relation to products or services which are identical or similar to the products or services of the other party	What occurs when someone uses a trademark that is identical or confusingly similar to a trademark owned by someone else?
Trade secret misappropriation is different from violations of other intellectual property laws, since by definition trade secrets are secret, while patents and registered copyrights and trademarks are publicly available	Which type of intellectual property is secret?
Criticism of the term intellectual property ranges from discussing its vagueness and abstract overreach to direct contention to the semantic validity of using words like property and rights in fashions that contradict practice and law	Which term is criticized as vague?
"Free Software Foundation founder Richard Stallman argues that, although the term intellectual property is in wide use, it should be rejected altogether, because it ""systematically distorts and confuses these issues, and its use was and is promoted by those who gain from this confusion"""	Who founded the Free Software Foundation?
On the assumption that intellectual property rights are actual rights Stallman argues that this claim does not live to the historical intentions behind these laws, which in the case of copyright served as a censorship system, and later on, a regulatory model for the printing press that may have benefited authors incidentally, but never interfered with the freedom of average readers	Stallman thinks what type of IP historically served as a censorship system?
Law professor, writer and political activist Lawrence Lessig, along with many other copyleft and free software activists, has criticized the implied analogy with physical property 	Who is one advocate of copyleft?
Some critics of intellectual property, such as those in the free culture movement, point at intellectual monopolies as harming health , preventing progress, and benefiting concentrated interests to the detriment of the masses, and argue that the public interest is harmed by ever-expansive monopolies in the form of copyright extensions, software patents, and business method patents	What can be harmed by pharmaceutical patents?
The World Intellectual Property Organization recognizes that conflicts may exist between the respect for and implementation of current intellectual property systems and other human rights	Who recognizes that conflicts may exist between IP and other human rights?
Further along these lines, The ethical problems brought up by IP rights are most pertinent when it is socially valuable goods like life-saving medicines are given IP protection	For what type of goods are IP's ethical problems most pertinent?
"This definition excludes any works that are the result of community creativity, for example Native American songs and stories; current legislation does not recognize the uniqueness of indigenous cultural ""property"" and its ever-changing nature"	What type of creativity is excluded from the US definition of IP?
Also with respect to copyright, the American film industry helped to change the social construct of intellectual property via its trade organization, the Motion Picture Association of America	What is the American film industry's trade organization?
"The Recording Industry Association of America, in particular, has been on the front lines of the fight against copyright infringement, which the industry calls ""piracy"""	What does the recording industry call piracy?
"In the context of trademarks, this expansion has been driven by international efforts to harmonise the definition of ""trademark"", as exemplified by the Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights ratified in 1994, which formalized regulations for IP rights that had been handled by common law, or not at all, in member states"	When was the Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights ratified?
Florida i/ˈflɒrɪdə/ is a state located in the southeastern region of the United States	What does Florida stand for 
A peninsula between the Gulf of Mexico, the Atlantic Ocean, and the Straits of Florida, it has the longest coastline in the contiguous United States, approximately 1,350 miles , and is the only state that borders both the Gulf of Mexico and the Atlantic Ocean	What is the longest Contiguous Coastline in the US 
"""By May 1539, Conquistador Hernando de Soto skirted the coast of Florida, searching for a deep harbor to land"	What conquistador landed in Florida in 1539 
In 1763, Spain traded Florida to the Kingdom of Great Britain for control of Havana, Cuba, which had been captured by the British during the Seven Years' War	What did Spain trade Florida for
The British divided Florida into the two colonies of British East Florida and British West Florida	What were the names of the 2 British colony's in Florida 
Furthermore, the British governors were directed to call general assemblies as soon as possible in order to make laws for the Floridas and in the meantime they were, with the advice of councils, to establish courts	What legal system was introduced by the British in Florida 
Americans of English descent and Americans of Scots-Irish descent began moving into northern Florida from the backwoods of Georgia and South Carolina	Where did English and Scotch Irish descent move to Florida from 
The British settlers who had remained also resented Spanish rule, leading to a rebellion in 1810 and the establishment for ninety days of the so-called Free and Independent Republic of West Florida on September 23	What led to the rebellion in 1810 
Seminole Indians based in East Florida began raiding Georgia settlements, and offering havens for runaway slaves	Where did Seminole Indians raid 
Florida had become a burden to Spain, which could not afford to send settlers or garrisons	Why did Madrid cede the territory to the US 
By the early 1800s, Indian removal was a significant issue throughout the southeastern U	What was an issue in the early 1800's 
The climate of Florida is tempered somewhat by the fact that no part of the state is distant from the ocean	What tempers the Florida Climate 
"Florida's nickname is the ""Sunshine State"", but severe weather is a common occurrence in the state"	What is Florida's nickname 
Hurricanes pose a severe threat each year during the June 1 to November 30 hurricane season, particularly from August to October	What posses a threat each year to Florida 
Extended systems of underwater caves, sinkholes and springs are found throughout the state and supply most of the water used by residents	What is found in Florida 
The United States Census Bureau estimates that the population of Florida was 20,271,272 on July 1, 2015, a 7	What is the population of Florida 
Florida requires felons to have completed sentencing, parole and/or probation, and then seven years later, to apply individually for restoration of voting privileges	What doe s the law require for criminals 
In the 1980 United States census the largest ancestry group reported in Florida was English with 2,232,514 Floridians claiming that they were of English or mostly English American ancestry	In the 1980 census the largest ancestry group in Florida was 
In 1970, non-Hispanic whites were nearly 80% of Florida's population	What percentage of florida was white Non Hispanic in 1970 
Nearly 80% of Cuban Americans live in Florida, especially South Florida where there is a long-standing and affluent Cuban community	What percentage of Cuban Americans live in Florida 
During the early 1900s, black people made up nearly half of the state's population	what percentage of florida was black in the early 1900's 
From 1952 to 1964, most voters were registered Democrats, but the state voted for the Republican presidential candidate in every election except for 1964	Voter demographics of florida in the 1950's 
From the 1930s through much of the 1960s, Florida was essentially a one-party state dominated by white conservative Democrats, who together with other Democrats of the Solid South, exercised considerable control in Congress	What party dominated florida politics from 1930 to 1960 
Cramer built a different Republican Party in Florida, attracting local white conservatives and transplants from northern and midwestern states	What is Cramer credited for 
"In 1998, Democratic voters dominated areas of the state with a high percentage of racial minorities and transplanted white liberals from the northeastern United States, known colloquially as ""snowbirds"""	What did democrat voters do in 1998 
The area is often seen as a merging point of the conservative northern portion of the state and the liberal southern portion, making it the biggest swing area in the state	The area is viewed as what politically
Reapportionment following the 2010 United States Census gave the state two more seats in the House of Representatives	What has reappointment done to florida 
Florida's felony disenfranchisement law is more severe than most European nations or other American states	How severe is Florida's Disenfranchisement law 
The court ruled in 2014, after lengthy testimony, that at least two districts had to be redrawn because of gerrymandering	Why did the 2 districts have to be redrawn in 2014 
Its GDP is the fourth largest economy in the United States	Where does Florida's GDP rank 
The early 21st-century building boom left Florida with 300,000 vacant homes in 2009, according to state figures	How many vacant homes in Florida in 2009 
After the watershed events of Hurricane Andrew in 1992, the state of Florida began investing in economic development through the Office of Trade, Tourism, and Economic Development	What did Hurricane Andrew cause Florida to do 
Some sections of the state feature architectural styles including Spanish revival, Florida vernacular, and Mediterranean Revival Style	What architectural styles are in Florida 
Florida is served by Amtrak, operating numerous lines throughout, connecting the state's largest cities to points north in the United States and Canada	What train line connects florida to the North 
Daytona also has the Coke Zero 400 NASCAR race weekend around Independence Day in July	Name another race in florida 
Before forming Queen, Brian May and Roger Taylor had played together in a band named Smile	What was the name of Brian May and Roger Taylor's band before Queen?
"In late 1970, after Staffell left to join the band Humpy Bong, the remaining Smile members, encouraged by Bulsara, changed their name to ""Queen"" and continued working together"	Tim Staffell left the band Smile in what year?
The band had a number of bass players during this period who did not fit with the band's chemistry	John Deacon played what instrument?
Having attended art college, Mercury also designed Queen's logo, called the Queen crest, shortly before the release of the band's first album	Who designed Queen's logo?
In 1972, Queen entered discussions with Trident Studios after being spotted at De La Lane Studios by John Anthony and after discussions were offered a management deal by Norman Sheffield under Neptune Productions, a subsidiary of Trident to manage the band and enable them to use the facilities at Trident to record new material whilst the management search for a record label to sign Queen	Who offered Queen a management deal in 1972?
In July 1973, Queen finally under a Trident/EMI deal released their eponymous debut album, an effort influenced by the heavy metal and progressive rock of the day	In what year was Queen's first album released?
The group's second LP, Queen II, was released in 1974, and features rock photographer Mick Rock's iconic image of the band on the cover	What was the name of Queen's second LP?
After the band's six-night stand at New York's Uris Theatre in May 1974, Brian May collapsed and was diagnosed as having hepatitis	What was Brian May diagnosed with after collapsing in 1974?
"The single ""Killer Queen"" from Sheer Heart Attack reached number two on the British charts, and became their first US hit, reaching number 12 on the Billboard Hot 100"	Which song was Queen's first US hit?
In 1975, the band left for a world tour with each member in Zandra Rhodes-created costumes and accompanied with banks of lights and effects	Who created the costumes for Queen's 1975 tour?
In late 1975, Queen recorded and released A Night at the Opera, taking its name from the popular Marx Brothers movie	Which Queen album was released in 1975?
"The album also featured the hit single ""Bohemian Rhapsody"", which was number one in the UK for nine weeks"	Which Queen song was number one on the UK charts for nine weeks?
By 1976, Queen were back in the studio recording A Day at the Races, which is often regarded as a sequel album to A Night at the Opera	What Queen album was released in 1976?
During 1976, Queen played one of their most famous gigs, a free concert in Hyde Park, London	Where did Queen host a free concert in 1976? 
The band's sixth studio album News of the World was released in 1977, which has gone four times platinum in the United States, and twice in the UK	Queen's sixth album was released in what year?
In 1978, the band released Jazz, which reached number two in the UK and number six on the Billboard 200 in the US	In what year did Queen release the album Jazz?
In December 1979, Queen played the opening night at the Concert for the People of Kampuchea in London, having accepted a request by the event's organiser Paul McCartney	Who organized the Concert for the People of Kampuchea?
In September 1980, Queen performed three sold-out shows at Madison Square Garden	Queen performed several sold out shows at what US venue?
In February 1981, Queen travelled to South America as part of The Game Tour, and became the first major rock band to play in Latin American stadiums	What band was the first major band to play in Latin American stadiums?
In 1982, the band released the album Hot Space, a departure from their trademark seventies sound, this time being a mixture of rock, pop rock, dance, funk, and R&B	What album did Queen release in 1982? 
That year, Queen began The Works Tour, the first tour to feature keyboardist Spike Edney as an extra live musician	Which Queen tour was the first to feature Spike Edney?
At Live Aid, held at Wembley on 13 July 1985, in front of the biggest-ever TV audience of 1	What date was Live Aid?
"When interviewed for Mojo magazine the band said the most amazing sight at Live Aid was to see the audience clapping to ""Radio Ga Ga"""	The audience at Live Aid clapped to what Queen Song?
"The band, now revitalised by the response to Live Aid – a ""shot in the arm"" Roger Taylor called it, — and the ensuing increase in record sales, ended 1985 by releasing the single ""One Vision"", which was the third time after ""Stone Cold Crazy"" and ""Under Pressure "" that all four bandmembers received a writing credit for the one song"	What year was Queen's One Vision released?
In summer of 1986, Queen went on their final tour with Freddie Mercury	Queen's final tour with Freddie Mercury was in what year?
After working on various solo projects during 1988 , the band released The Miracle in 1989	Who did Freddie Mercury collaborate with in 1988?
In 1990, Queen ended their contract with Capitol and signed with Disney's Hollywood Records, which has since remained the group's music catalogue owner in the United States and Canada	When did Queen end their contract with Capitol?
"Innuendo was released in early 1991 with an eponymous number 1 UK hit and other charting singles including, ""The Show Must Go On"""	What was one single from Queen's Innuendo that charted in the UK?
On 23 November 1991, in a prepared statement made on his deathbed, Mercury confirmed that he had AIDS	When was Freddie Mercury's deathbed confession made?
"Queen's popularity was stimulated in North America when ""Bohemian Rhapsody"" was featured in the 1992 comedy film Wayne's World"	Which movie featured Queen's Bohemian Rhapsody?
On 20 April 1992, The Freddie Mercury Tribute Concert was held at London's Wembley Stadium to a 72,000-strong crowd	When was the Freddie Mercury Tribute Concert held?
Queen's last album featuring Mercury, titled Made in Heaven, was finally released in 1995, four years after his death	What was Queen's final album featuring Mercury vocals compiled from earlier recordings called?
"In 1997, Queen returned to the studio to record ""No-One but You "", a song dedicated to Mercury and all those that die too soon"	In what year did Queen release No-One but You
Brian May and Roger Taylor performed together at several award ceremonies and charity concerts, sharing vocals with various guest singers	Which two members of Queen performed together at several charity concerts?
In 1999, a Greatest Hits III album was released	What year was Queen's third greatest hits album released?
At the end of 2004, May and Taylor announced that they would reunite and return to touring in 2005 with Paul Rodgers 	Paul Rodgers joined Queen in what year?
Between 2005 and 2006, Queen + Paul Rodgers embarked on a world tour, which was the first time Queen toured since their last tour with Freddie Mercury in 1986	Between what years did Queen and Paul Rodgers first embark on a world tour?
"On 15 August 2006, Brian May confirmed through his website and fan club that Queen + Paul Rodgers would begin producing their first studio album beginning in October, to be recorded at a ""secret location"""	Which band performed at Nelson Mandela's 90th birthday?
"On 20 May 2009, May and Taylor performed ""We Are the Champions"" live on the season finale of American Idol with winner Kris Allen and runner-up Adam Lambert providing a vocal duet"	On 20 May 2009 which Queen members performed We are the Champions on American Idol?
On 30 October 2009, May wrote a fanclub letter on his website stating that Queen had no intentions to tour in 2010 but that there was a possibility of a performance	Which member of Queen wrote a letter to fans in 2009 regarding touring for 2010?
On 7 May 2010, May and Taylor announced that they were quitting their record label, EMI, after almost 40 years	What record label did May and Taylor leave in 2010?
At the 2011 MTV Europe Music Awards on 6 November, Queen received the Global Icon Award, which Katy Perry presented to Brian May	Which artist presented the Global Icon Award to Queen in 2011?
"On 25 and 26 April, May and Taylor appeared on the eleventh series of American Idol at the Nokia Theatre, Los Angeles, performing a Queen medley with the six finalists on the first show, and the following day performed ""Somebody to Love"" with the 'Queen Extravaganza' band"	Which Queen members were appearing on American Idol in the late 2000s?
On 20 September 2013, Queen + Adam Lambert performed at the iHeartRadio Music Festival at the MGM Grand Hotel & Casino in Las Vegas	When did Queen + Adam Lambert perform at the iHeartRadio Music Festival?
Queen drew artistic influence from British rock acts of the 1960s and early 1970s, such as the Beatles, the Kinks, Cream, Led Zeppelin, Pink Floyd, the Who, Black Sabbath, Slade, Deep Purple, David Bowie, Genesis and Yes, in addition to American guitarist Jimi Hendrix, with Mercury also inspired by the gospel singer Aretha Franklin	Which guitarist inspired Queen?
"Similarly, ""Radio Ga Ga"" became a live favourite because it would have ""crowds clapping like they were at a Nuremberg rally"""	Which Queen song inspired audience clapping?
In 1963, the teenage Brian May and his father custom-built his signature guitar Red Special, which was purposely designed to feedback	What was the name of Brian May's signature guitar?
At the Disco; and pop: Michael Jackson, George Michael, Robbie Williams, Adele, Lady Gaga and Katy Perry	Which King of Pop was influenced by Queen?
"In 2002, Queen's ""Bohemian Rhapsody"" was voted ""the UK's favourite hit of all time"" in a poll conducted by the Guinness World Records British Hit Singles Book"	What song was voted the UK's favorite hit of all time in 2002?
The band have released a total of eighteen number one albums, eighteen number one singles, and ten number one DVDs worldwide, making them one of the world's best-selling music artists	How many number one albums has Queen released?
A 2001 survey discovered the existence of 12,225 websites dedicated to Queen bootlegs, the highest number for any band	How many Queen bootleg sites were discovered in 2001?
The original London production was scheduled to close on Saturday, 7 October 2006, at the Dominion Theatre, but due to public demand, the show ran until May 2014	When was Queen's London production scheduled to end in 2006?
DVD releases of their 1986 Wembley concert , 1982 Milton Keynes concert , and two Greatest Video Hits have seen the band's music remixed into 5	Queen's Live at Wembley Stadium DVD covered what year?
"Queen have been featured multiple times in the Guitar Hero franchise: a cover of ""Killer Queen"" in the original Guitar Hero, ""We Are The Champions"", ""Fat Bottomed Girls"", and the Paul Rodgers collaboration ""C-lebrity"" in a track pack for Guitar Hero World Tour, ""Under Pressure"" with David Bowie in Guitar Hero 5, ""I Want It All"" in Guitar Hero: Van Halen, ""Stone Cold Crazy"" in Guitar Hero: Metallica, and ""Bohemian Rhapsody"" in Guitar Hero: Warriors of Rock"	Which music video game featured a plethora of Queen songs?
"Queen contributed music directly to the films Flash Gordon , with ""Flash"" as the theme song, and Highlander , with ""A Kind of Magic"", ""One Year of Love"", ""Who Wants to Live Forever"", ""Hammer to Fall"", and the theme ""Princes of the Universe"", which was also used as the theme of the Highlander TV series "	Which 1980 movie contained song contributions from Queen?
"A version of ""Somebody to Love"" by Anne Hathaway was in the 2004 film Ella Enchanted"	ho sang a version of Queen's Somebody to Love in 2004's Ella Enchanted?
On 11 April 2006, Brian May and Roger Taylor appeared on the American singing contest television show American Idol	On what date in 2006 did May and Taylor of Queen appear on American Idol?
"In the autumn of 2009, Glee featured the fictional high school's show choir singing ""Somebody to Love"" as their second act performance in the episode ""The Rhodes Not Taken"""	Which Queen song was featured in the autumn of 2009 on Glee
In September 2010, Brian May announced in a BBC interview that Sacha Baron Cohen was to play Mercury in a film of the same name	Who was originally chosen to play Freddie Mercury in the movie bearing his name?
Presbyterianism is a part of the Reformed tradition within Protestantism which traces its origins to the British Isles	Where can you trace back the origins of Presbyterianism back to?
Most Reformed churches which trace their history back to Scotland are either presbyterian or congregationalist in government	Where do most presbyterian churches trace their history back to?
Presbyterian history is part of the history of Christianity, but the beginning of Presbyterianism as a distinct movement occurred during the 16th-century Protestant Reformation	What other religion has history as being part of Presbyterian?
"Presbyterians distinguish themselves from other denominations by doctrine, institutional organization and worship; often using a ""Book of Order"" to regulate common practice and order"	What term described the method used to regulate common practice and or order?
Presbyterians place great importance upon education and lifelong learning	What do Presbyterians put importance into?
Teaching elders have responsibility for teaching, worship, and performing sacraments	What are the responsibilities of the elder pastors?
Ruling elders are usually laymen who are elected by the congregation and ordained to serve with the teaching elders, assuming responsibility for nurture and leadership of the congregation	Who elects the ruling elders?
Above the sessions exist presbyteries, which have area responsibilities	Which group from the Presbyterian church in rank is above sessions?
Presbyterianism is historically a confessional tradition	Presbyterianism is based on this type of tradition, what is it?
Some Presbyterian traditions adopt only the Westminster Confession of Faith as the doctrinal standard to which teaching elders are required to subscribe, in contrast to the Larger and Shorter catechisms, which are approved for use in instruction	What traditions do some Presbyterian churches only adopt as their doctrinal standard?
"The Westminster Confession is ""The principal subordinate standard of the Church of Scotland"" but ""with due regard to liberty of opinion in points which do not enter into the substance of the Faith"" "	To the church of Scotland, what is the sub standard doctrine?
) has adopted the Book of Confessions, which reflects the inclusion of other Reformed confessions in addition to the Westminster Standards	Which book has the Presbyterian church of America adopted?
Presbyterian denominations that trace their heritage to the British Isles usually organise their church services inspired by the principles in the Directory of Public Worship, developed by the Westminster Assembly in the 1640s	The Presbyterian denominations from the British Isles were inspired by these principles in what document?
Over subsequent centuries, many Presbyterian churches modified these prescriptions by introducing hymnody, instrumental accompaniment, and ceremonial vestments into worship	What did many Presbyterian churches introduce as a result of modifying prescriptions? 
Among the paleo-orthodox and emerging church movements in Protestant and evangelical churches, in which some Presbyterians are involved, clergy are moving away from the traditional black Geneva gown to such vestments as the alb and chasuble, but also cassock and surplice , which some, particularly those identifying with the Liturgical Renewal Movement, hold to be more ancient and representative of a more ecumenical past	Among the emerging Protestant and Evangelical churches what are clergy moving away from?
"Early Presbyterians were careful to distinguish between the ""church,"" which referred the members, and the ""meeting house,"" which was the building in which the church met"	"Presbyterians had to distinguished between ""Church"" and ""Meeting house"" What was ""Church"" referring too?"
"Instead, one will find a ""communion table,"" usually on the same level as the congregation"	What did Presbyterian churches have in them?
John Knox , a Scot who had spent time studying under Calvin in Geneva, returned to Scotland and urged his countrymen to reform the Church in line with Calvinist doctrines	What year did John Knox past away?
However, with the Glorious Revolution of 1688 the Church of Scotland was finally unequivocally recognised as a Presbyterian institution by the monarch due to Scottish Presbyterian support for the aforementioned revolution and the Acts of Union 1707 between Scotland and England guaranteed the Church of Scotland's form of government	In what year was the Church of Scotland recognized as a Presbyterian institution by the moncarh?
In England, Presbyterianism was established in secret in 1592	In what year was the Presbyterianism church formed in England?
A number of new Presbyterian Churches were founded by Scottish immigrants to England in the 19th century and later	When was the earliest Presbyterian churches founded by Scotland in England?
In 1972, the Presbyterian Church of England united with the Congregational Church in England and Wales to form the United Reformed Church 	In what year did the Church of England and the Congregational Church in England and Waled unite?
Presbyterianism is the largest Protestant denomination in Northern Ireland and the second largest on the island of Ireland , and was brought by Scottish plantation settlers to Ulster who had been strongly encouraged to emigrate by James VI of Scotland, later James I of England	What is the largest Protestant denomination in Northern Ireland?
Presbyterianism first officially arrived in Colonial America in 1703 with the establishment of the first Presbytery in Philadelphia	When did Presbyterianism arrive in America?
Other Presbyterian bodies in the United States include the Reformed Presbyterian Church of North America , the Associate Reformed Presbyterian Church , the Reformed Presbyterian Church in the United States , the Reformed Presbyterian Church General Assembly, the Reformed Presbyterian Church – Hanover Presbytery, the Covenant Presbyterian Church, the Presbyterian Reformed Church, the Westminster Presbyterian Church in the United States, the Korean American Presbyterian Church, and the Free Presbyterian Church of North America	What is the name of the Asian Presbyterian Church in the United States?
In the late 1800s, Presbyterian missionaries established a presence in what is now northern New Mexico	Around when did Presbyterian missionaries arrived in New Mexico?
In Canada, the largest Presbyterian denomination – and indeed the largest Protestant denomination – was the Presbyterian Church in Canada, formed in 1875 with the merger of four regional groups	What is the largest Presbyterian church denomination in Canada?
The biggest Presbyterian church is the National Presbyterian Church in Mexico , which has around 2,500,000 members and associates and 3000 congregations, but there are other small denominations like the Associate Reformed Presbyterian Church in Mexico which was founded in 1875 by the Associate Reformed Church in North America	What is the name of the largest Presbyterian church in Mexico?
In Brazil, the Presbyterian Church of Brazil totals approximately 1,011,300 members; other Presbyterian churches (Independents, United, Conservatives, Renovated, etc	How many members are in the Presbyterian Church of Brazil?
African Presbyterian churches often incorporate diaconal ministries, including social services, emergency relief, and the operation of mission hospitals	Which services to most African Presbyterian churches offer?
The Reformed Presbyterian Church in Malawi has 150 congregations and 17 000–20 000 members	The Reformed Presbyterian Church in Malawi has a range of members between what amounts?
Most of the Korean Presbyterian denominations share the same name in Korean, 대한예수교장로회 , tracing its roots to the United Presbyterian Assembly before its long history of disputes and schisms	Most of the churches in Korea carry the same name, what is it?
Korean Presbyterian denominations are active in evangelism and many of its missionaries are being sent overseas, being the second biggest missionary sender in the world after the United States	Korean Presbyterian missionaries being sent over seas are second in numbers to only which other country?
The Presbyterian Church in Taiwan is by far the largest Protestant denomination in Taiwan, with some 238,372 members as of 2009 	What is the name of the largest Presbyterian church in Taiwan?
In the mainly Christian Indian state of Mizoram, the Presbyterian denomination is the largest denomination; it was brought to the region with missionaries from Wales in 1894	What year was the largest Presbyterian denomination brought to Mizoram?
In Australia, Presbyterianism is the fourth largest denomination of Christianity, with nearly 600,000 Australians claiming to be Presbyterian in the 2006 Commonwealth Census	How many members make up the Presbyterian church in Australia?
In 1977, two thirds of the Presbyterian Church of Australia, along with most of the Congregational Union of Australia and all the Methodist Church of Australasia, combined to form the Uniting Church in Australia	In what year did the Presbyterian Church of Australia , the Congregational Union of Australia , and all the Methodist Church of Australasia merge?
The Presbyterian Church in Vanuatu is the largest denomination in the country, with approximately one-third of the population of Vanuatu members of the church	What is the name of the largest denomination of Presbyterian church in Vanuatu?
Since the Protestant Reformation, the most prominent Christian denomination in Thuringia has been Lutheranism	What is the most common Christian denomination in Thuringia? 
The name Thuringia or Thüringen derives from the Germanic tribe Thuringii, who emerged during the Migration Period	Where does the name Thuringia come from?
The Thuringian Realm existed until 531 and later, the Landgraviate of Thuringia was the largest state in the region, persisting between 1131 and 1247	How long did the Thuringian realm exist?
Thuringia became a landgraviate in 1130 AD	When did Thuringia become a landgraviate? 
Thuringia generally accepted the Protestant Reformation, and Roman Catholicism was suppressed as early as 1520; priests who remained loyal to it were driven away and churches and monasteries were largely destroyed, especially during the German Peasants' War of 1525	When did Roman Catholicism become suppressed?
Some reordering of the Thuringian states occurred during the German Mediatisation from 1795 to 1814, and the territory was included within the Napoleonic Confederation of the Rhine organized in 1806	When was the German Mediatisation?
In 1930 Thuringia was one of the free states where the Nazis gained real political power	When did nazis gain power in Thuringia?
The far north is occupied by the Harz mountains, followed by the Goldene Aue, a fertile floodplain around Nordhausen with the Helme as most important river	Where are the Harz mountains located?
The most important river in Thuringia is the Saale with its tributaries Unstrut, Ilm and Weiße Elster, draining the most parts of Thuringia and the Werra , draining the south-west and west of the Land	Which river in Thuringia is the most important?
Due to many centuries of intensive settlement, most of the area is shaped by human influence	Why is Thurnigia's landscape shaped by human influence?
Environmental damage in Thuringia has been reduced to a large extent after 1990	Since when has environmental damage in Thuringia been reduced?
During the Middle Ages, Thuringia was situated at the border between Germanic and Slavic territories, marked by the Saale river	Where was Thuringia in the Middle Ages?
In July 2013, there were 41,000 non-Germans by citizenship living in Thuringia (1	How many non-Germans lived in Thuringia in 2013?
Overall, there are 115 to 120 men per 100 women in the 25–40 age group which has negative consequences for the birth ratio	What is the sex ratio gap in Thuringia?
From 2008 to 2012, there was a net migration from Thuringia to Erfurt of +6,700 persons , +1,800 to Gera , +1,400 to Jena , +1,400 to Eisenach and +1,300 to Weimar 	How many people migrated to Thuringia between 2008 and 2012?
Of the approximately 850 municipalities of Thuringia, 126 are classed as towns or cities 	How many municipalities are in Thuringia? 
Agriculture and forestry have declined in importance over the decades	What is something more important to Thuringia than most areas of Germany?
Like most other regions of central and southern Germany, Thuringia has a significant industrial sector reaching back to the mid-19th-century industrialisation	How far back does Thuringia's industrial sector go back?
Mining was important in Thuringia since the later Middle Ages, especially within the mining towns of the Thuringian Forest such as Schmalkalden, Suhl and Ilmenau	Which towns in Thuringia are known as mining towns?
The GDP of Thuringia is below the national average, in line with the other former East German Lands	Where is the GDP of Thuringia?
The unemployment rate reached its peak of 20% in 2005	When did the unemployment rate of Thuringia peak?
During the 1930s, the first two motorways were built across the Land, the A4 motorway as an important east-west connection in central Germany and the main link between Berlin and south-west Germany, and the A9 motorway as the main north-south route in eastern Germany, connecting Berlin with Munich	When were the first motorways built in Thuringia?
The traditional energy supply of Thuringia is lignite, mined in the bordering Leipzig region	What is Thuringia's traditional energy supply?
Many smaller hospitals in the rural towns are closing, whereas the bigger ones in centres like Jena and Erfurt get enlarged	Which hospitals are being expanded?
The Thuringian primary school takes four years and most primary schools are all-day schools offering optional extracurricular activities in the afternoon	How long is Thuringian primary school?
The University of Jena is the biggest amongst Thuringia's four universities and offers nearly every discipline	What is the biggest school in Thuringia?
"In addition, there is a civil service college in Gotha with 500 students, the College of Music ""Franz Liszt"" in Weimar as well as two private colleges, the Adam-Ries-Fachhochschule in Erfurt and the SRH College for nursing and allied medical subjects in Gera "	Where is the civil service college of Thuringia?
Both focus on technology, in particular life sciences and optics at Jena and information technology at Ilmenau	What is the focus of Thuringia's research center, Jena?
The first railways in Thuringia had been built in the 1840s and the network of main lines was finished around 1880	When was Thuringia's first railway built?
The key characteristic of predation however is the predator's direct impact on the prey population	What must a species do in order to be classified as a predator?
Two factors are considered here: How close the predator and prey are and whether or not the prey are directly murdered by the predator is considered, with true predation and parasitoidism involving certain death	How many synergetic qualities are there in the predator-prey mechanism? 
Some animals that kill both large and small prey for their size may do either depending upon the circumstances; either would devour a large insect whole but dismember a rabbit	What do household animals prey upon? 
Grazing organisms may also kill their prey species, but this is seldom the case	Animals that consume parts of their prey are considered to be
Parasites can at times be difficult to distinguish from grazers	Species that rely on few or a single prey are called?
A well-known example of a parasitoids are the ichneumon wasps, solitary insects living a free life as an adult, then laying eggs on or in another species such as a caterpillar	This species relies on other species to provide a reproductive host for their offspring.
Others are more opportunistic and will kill and eat almost anything 	Species that aren't considered specialized are called what? 
One way of classifying predators is by trophic level	What is the the strata of predator prey interaction called?
Scavenging of carrion provides a significant part of the diet of some of the most fearsome predators	Dead animals that died as a result of natural causes or non-fatal injuries are called?
Intraguild predators are those that kill and eat other predators of different species at the same trophic level, and thus that are potential competitors	Intraguild species consumer other species within?
Such predators are known as keystone species and may have a profound influence on the balance of organisms in a particular ecosystem	What is the title of a predator that maintains balance with an ecosystem?
In addition, wolves often kept animals from grazing in riparian areas, which protected beavers from having their food sources encroached upon	What animal's food sources were greatly affected with the loss of wolves in Yellowstone National Park?
The act of predation can be broken down into a maximum of four stages: Detection of prey, attack, capture and finally consumption	At most there are how many step of predator-prey interaction? 
One adaptation helping both predators and prey avoid detection is camouflage, a form of crypsis where species have an appearance that helps them blend into the background	Which adaptation helps both predators and prey?
Mimicry is a related phenomenon where an organism has a similar appearance to another species	What is the phenomenon where an organism looks like another species called?
While successful predation results in a gain of energy, hunting invariably involves energetic costs as well	What makes predation successful?
Social predation offers the possibility of predators to kill creatures larger than those that members of the species could overpower singly	What hunting style allows chimpanzees to prey upon colobus monkeys?
This interaction can range from peaceful coexistence to close companionship; motivation to ignore the predatory instinct may result from mutual advantage or fear of reprisal from human masters who have made clear that harming co-inhabitants will not be tolerated	Well-fed animals in captivity can become friends with prey animals due to what motivation?
The electric eel uses the same electric current to kill prey and to defend itself against animals that ordinarily prey upon fish similar to an electric eel in size; the electric eel thus remains an apex predator in a predator-rich environment	What are some predators of the electric eel?
It should also be noted that some species can be on both ends of a mobbing attack	Is a species always the antagonist in a mobbing attack, or can it play roles on both sides?
Aposematism, where organisms are brightly colored as a warning to predators, is the antithesis of camouflage	What scientific term is used to describe organisms that are brightly colored as a warning to predators?
It is fairly clear that predators tend to lower the survival and fecundity of their prey, but on a higher level of organization, populations of predator and prey species also interact	What do predators depend on for survival?
A lone naked human is at a physical disadvantage to other comparable apex predators in areas such as speed, bone density, weight, and physical strength	What physical disadvantages do humans have against other apex predators?
Having small population size is a characteristic almost universally inherent to apex predators, humans and dogs by far the most blatant exceptions	What two apex predators do not have a small population size?
If a predator hunts its prey species to numbers too low to sustain the population in the short term, they can cause not only the extinction or extirpation of the prey but also the extinction of their own species, a phenomenon known as coextinction	When a predator hunts too much of its prey, causing both populations to dissappear, the phenomenon is called what?
Natural predators are an environmentally friendly and sustainable way of reducing damage to crops, and are one alternative to the use of chemical agents such as pesticides	How can natural predators benefit crops?
Most of Marvel's fictional characters operate in a single reality known as the Marvel Universe, with locations that mirror real-life cities	Captain America, Thor and Ultron all inhabit what fictional milieu?
Martin Goodman founded the company later known as Marvel Comics under the name Timely Publications in 1939	Who originally founded Marvel Comics?
The company's first true editor, writer-artist Joe Simon, teamed with artist and emerging industry notable Jack Kirby to create one of the first patriotically themed superheroes, Captain America, in Captain America Comics #1 	Who was Marvel/Timely's first true full-time editor?
"Timely also published one of humor cartoonist Basil Wolverton's best-known features, ""Powerhouse Pepper"", as well as a line of children's funny-animal comics featuring popular characters like Super Rabbit and the duo Ziggy Pig and Silly Seal"	What cartoon humorist did some high profile stories for Marvel in the early years?
One of these shell companies through which Timely Comics was published was named Marvel Comics by at least Marvel Mystery Comics #55 	Marvel Comics was part of many entities having what relationship with Timely?
Atlas unsuccessfully attempted to revive superheroes from late 1953 to mid-1954, with the Human Torch , the Sub-Mariner , and Captain America (writer Stan Lee, artist John Romita Sr	Which writer and artist was behind the Sub-Mariner?
Modern Marvel's first superhero team, the titular stars of The Fantastic Four #1 (Nov	Marvel's first team of superheroes was known by what alliterative name?
Lee and freelance artist and eventual co-plotter Jack Kirby's Fantastic Four originated in a Cold War culture that led their creators to revise the superhero conventions of previous eras to better reflect the psychological spirit of their age	Who joined with Stan Lee in creating the Fantastic Four?
In 1965, Spider-Man and the Hulk were both featured in Esquire magazine's list of 28 college campus heroes, alongside John F	What magazine featured two Marvel Characters in a college campus heroes feature?
In addition to Spider-Man and the Fantastic Four, Marvel began publishing further superhero titles featuring such heroes and antiheroes as the Hulk, Thor, Ant-Man, Iron Man, the X-Men, Daredevil, the Inhumans, Black Panther, Doctor Strange, Captain Marvel and the Silver Surfer, and such memorable antagonists as Doctor Doom, Magneto, Galactus, Loki, the Green Goblin, and Doctor Octopus, all existing in a shared reality known as the Marvel Universe, with locations that mirror real-life cities such as New York, Los Angeles and Chicago	What actual US cities have fictional equivalents in Marvel's comic milieu?
In 1968, while selling 50 million comic books a year, company founder Goodman revised the constraining distribution arrangement with Independent News he had reached under duress during the Atlas years, allowing him now to release as many titles as demand warranted	How many comics did Marvel sell during 1968?
In 1971, the United States Department of Health, Education, and Welfare approached Marvel Comics editor-in-chief Stan Lee to do a comic book story about drug abuse	What government agency asked Marvel to do a series of stories to publicize an issue?
Once again, Marvel attempted to diversify, and with the updating of the Comics Code achieved moderate to strong success with titles themed to horror , martial arts, , sword-and-sorcery , satire and science fiction 	What situation allowed Marvel to expand into more adult-themed genre stories?
Goodman, now disconnected from Marvel, set up a new company called Seaboard Periodicals in 1974, reviving Marvel's old Atlas name for a new Atlas Comics line, but this lasted only a year and a half	What new venture did Marvel's founder begin after leaving the company in the 1970s?
Marvel held its own comic book convention, Marvelcon '75, in spring 1975, and promised a Marvelcon '76	What was Marvel's self-hosted comic book convention called?
In 1978, Jim Shooter became Marvel's editor-in-chief	Who took over as head of Marvel in 1978?
Marvel earned a great deal of money and recognition during the comic book boom of the early 1990s, launching the successful 2099 line of comics set in the future (Spider-Man 2099, etc	What 1990s comic line featured futuristic, sci-fi stories?
"In 1996, Marvel had some of its titles participate in ""Heroes Reborn"", a crossover that allowed Marvel to relaunch some of its flagship characters such as the Avengers and the Fantastic Four, and outsource them to the studios of two of the former Marvel artists turned Image Comics founders, Jim Lee and Rob Liefeld"	What studio helped to relaunch and revamp classic marvel teams The Fantastic Four and the Avengers?
In late 1994, Marvel acquired the comic book distributor Heroes World Distribution to use as its own exclusive distributor	What channel did Marvel buy to self-distribute its own comics in the 1990s?
With the new millennium, Marvel Comics emerged from bankruptcy and again began diversifying its offerings	What was the business state of Marvel by 2000?
On August 31, 2009, The Walt Disney Company announced a deal to acquire Marvel Comics' parent corporation, Marvel Entertainment, for $4 billion or $4	What entertainment company purchased Marvel at the end of the 2000s?
Marvel discontinued its Marvel Adventures imprint in March 2012, and replaced them with a line of two titles connected to the Marvel Universe TV block	When did the Marvel Adventures line cease publishing?
With ABC, a Once Upon a Time graphic novel was announced for publication in September	What TV network shares a parent with Marvel?
Marvel first licensed two prose novels to Bantam Books, who printed The Avengers Battle the Earth Wrecker by Otto Binder and Captain America: The Great Gold Steal by Ted White 	What publisher did Marvel first license its characters to for novelization?
Walt Disney Parks and Resorts plans on creating original Marvel attractions at their theme parks, with Hong Kong Disneyland becoming the first Disney theme park to feature a Marvel attraction	What Disney theme park will become the first to feature Marvel-specific attractions?
The British Empire comprised the dominions, colonies, protectorates, mandates and other territories ruled or administered by the United Kingdom	The United Kingdom ruled what empire?
During the Age of Discovery in the 15th and 16th centuries, Portugal and Spain pioneered European exploration of the globe, and in the process established large overseas empires	In which centuries was the Age of Discovery?
The independence of the Thirteen Colonies in North America in 1783 after the American War of Independence caused Britain to lose some of its oldest and most populous colonies	When did the Thirteen Colonies become independent from Britain?
By the start of the 20th century, Germany and the United States challenged Britain's economic lead	Which countries challenged Britain's economic lead by the start of the 20th century?
In 1496 King Henry VII of England, following the successes of Spain and Portugal in overseas exploration, commissioned John Cabot to lead a voyage to discover a route to Asia via the North Atlantic	When was John Cabot's voyage commissioned?
In the meantime the Protestant Reformation had turned England and Catholic Spain into implacable enemies	What had turned England and Catholic Spain into implacable enemies?
In 1578, Elizabeth I granted a patent to Humphrey Gilbert for discovery and overseas exploration	When did Humphrey Gilbert first set sail for the West Indies?
In 1603, James VI, King of Scots, ascended to the English throne and in 1604 negotiated the Treaty of London, ending hostilities with Spain	What was James I's name/title before taking the English throne?
An attempt to establish a colony in Guiana in 1604 lasted only two years, and failed in its main objective to find gold deposits	When did England first establish a colony in Guiana?
England's first permanent settlement in the Americas was founded in 1607 in Jamestown, led by Captain John Smith and managed by the Virginia Company	When was England's first permanent settlement in the Americas founded?
Two years later, the Royal African Company was inaugurated, receiving from King Charles a monopoly of the trade to supply slaves to the British colonies of the Caribbean	Which company had monopoly of the trade to supply slaves to the British colonies of the Caribbean?
In 1695, the Scottish Parliament granted a charter to the Company of Scotland, which established a settlement in 1698 on the isthmus of Panama	When was the Company of Scotland granted a charter?
At the end of the 16th century, England and the Netherlands began to challenge Portugal's monopoly of trade with Asia, forming private joint-stock companies to finance the voyages—the English, later British, East India Company and the Dutch East India Company, chartered in 1600 and 1602 respectively	When was the British East India Company chartered?
Peace between England and the Netherlands in 1688 meant that the two countries entered the Nine Years' War as allies, but the conflict—waged in Europe and overseas between France, Spain and the Anglo-Dutch alliance—left the English a stronger colonial power than the Dutch, who were forced to devote a larger proportion of their military budget on the costly land war in Europe	Which country became Britain's main rival in the 18th century?
At the concluding Treaty of Utrecht, Philip renounced his and his descendants' right to the French throne and Spain lost its empire in Europe	King Philip renounced his right to the throne after what treaty?
During the middle decades of the 18th century, there were several outbreaks of military conflict on the Indian subcontinent, the Carnatic Wars, as the English East India Company and its French counterpart, the Compagnie française des Indes orientales, struggled alongside local rulers to fill the vacuum that had been left by the decline of the Mughal Empire	What was the French equivalent of the English East India Company?
The British and French struggles in India became but one theatre of the global Seven Years' War involving France, Britain and the other major European powers	When was the Seven Years' War?
During the 1760s and early 1770s, relations between the Thirteen Colonies and Britain became increasingly strained, primarily because of resentment of the British Parliament's attempts to govern and tax American colonists without their consent	British relations with which area became strained in the 1760s-1770s?
Adam Smith's Wealth of Nations, published in 1776, had argued that colonies were redundant, and that free trade should replace the old mercantilist policies that had characterised the first period of colonial expansion, dating back to the protectionism of Spain and Portugal	What book by Adam Smith was published in 1776?
Events in America influenced British policy in Canada, where between 40,000 and 100,000 defeated Loyalists had migrated from America following independence	How many British loyalists moved from the US to Canada?
Since 1718, transportation to the American colonies had been a penalty for various criminal offences in Britain, with approximately one thousand convicts transported per year across the Atlantic	How many convicts per year had Britain been sending to the American colonies?
During his voyage, Cook also visited New Zealand, first discovered by Dutch explorer Abel Tasman in 1642, and claimed the North and South islands for the British crown in 1769 and 1770 respectively	When was New Zealand discovered by the Dutch?
French ports were blockaded by the Royal Navy, which won a decisive victory over a Franco-Spanish fleet at Trafalgar in 1805	The British Royal Navy blockaded which ports?
With support from the British abolitionist movement, Parliament enacted the Slave Trade Act in 1807, which abolished the slave trade in the empire	When was the Slave Trade Act enacted?
"Between 1815 and 1914, a period referred to as Britain's ""imperial century"" by some historians, around 10,000,000 square miles of territory and roughly 400 million people were added to the British Empire"	How many square miles of territory were added to the British Empire between 1815 and 1914?
From its base in India, the Company had also been engaged in an increasingly profitable opium export trade to China since the 1730s	What illegal trade was the British East India Company involved in?
A series of Acts of Parliament were passed, including the Regulating Act of 1773, Pitt's India Act of 1784 and the Charter Act of 1813 which regulated the Company's affairs and established the sovereignty of the Crown over the territories that it had acquired	When did Britain pass the Regulating Act?
During the 19th century, Britain and the Russian Empire vied to fill the power vacuums that had been left by the declining Ottoman Empire, Qajar dynasty and Qing Dynasty	Britain competed with which country to fill the Asian power vacuum in the 19th century?
When Russia invaded the Turkish Balkans in 1853, fears of Russian dominance in the Mediterranean and Middle East led Britain and France to invade the Crimean Peninsula to destroy Russian naval capabilities	When did Russia invade the Turkish Balkans?
The Dutch East India Company had founded the Cape Colony on the southern tip of Africa in 1652 as a way station for its ships travelling to and from its colonies in the East Indies	When was the southern tip of Africa colonized?
In 1869 the Suez Canal opened under Napoleon III, linking the Mediterranean with the Indian Ocean	When did the Suez Canal open?
A joint force of British and Egyptian troops defeated the Mahdist Army in 1896, and rebuffed a French attempted invasion at Fashoda in 1898	Where did France try to invade in 1898?
The path to independence for the white colonies of the British Empire began with the 1839 Durham Report, which proposed unification and self-government for Upper and Lower Canada, as a solution to political unrest there	When was it proposed to unify Upper and Lower Canada?
Home rule was supported by the British Prime minister, William Gladstone, who hoped that Ireland might follow in Canada's footsteps as a Dominion within the empire, but his 1886 Home Rule bill was defeated in Parliament	Which British Prime Minister first supported home rule of Ireland?
Germany was rapidly rising as a military and industrial power and was now seen as the most likely opponent in any future war	Which country seemed like Britain's most likely threat in the early 20th century?
Britain's fears of war with Germany were realised in 1914 with the outbreak of the First World War	When did the First World War begin?
The contributions of Australian and New Zealand troops during the 1915 Gallipoli Campaign against the Ottoman Empire had a great impact on the national consciousness at home, and marked a watershed in the transition of Australia and New Zealand from colonies to nations in their own right	When was the Gallipoli Campaign?
Under the terms of the concluding Treaty of Versailles signed in 1919, the empire reached its greatest extent with the addition of 1,800,000 square miles and 13 million new subjects	When was the Treaty of Versailles signed?
Forced to choose between alignment with the United States or Japan, Britain opted not to renew its Japanese alliance and instead signed the 1922 Washington Naval Treaty, where Britain accepted naval parity with the United States	When did Britain sign the Washington Naval Treaty?
In 1919, the frustrations caused by delays to Irish home rule led members of Sinn Féin, a pro-independence party that had won a majority of the Irish seats at Westminster in the 1918 British general election, to establish an Irish assembly in Dublin, at which Irish independence was declared	When did Ireland establish their own assembly?
A similar struggle began in India when the Government of India Act 1919 failed to satisfy demand for independence	When was the Government of India Act passed?
In 1922, Egypt, which had been declared a British protectorate at the outbreak of the First World War, was granted formal independence, though it continued to be a British client state until 1954	When did Egypt regain formal independence from Britain?
The ability of the Dominions to set their own foreign policy, independent of Britain, was recognised at the 1923 Imperial Conference	When was the right of Dominions to determine their own foreign policy recognized?
After the German occupation of France in 1940, Britain and the empire stood alone against Germany, until the entry of the Soviet Union to the war in 1941	When was France occupied by Germany?
In December 1941, Japan launched, in quick succession, attacks on British Malaya, the United States naval base at Pearl Harbor, and Hong Kong	Which country attacked British Malaya in 1941?
33 billion loan from the United States, the last instalment of which was repaid in 2006	When did Britain finish paying back the US loan?
The pro-decolonisation Labour government, elected at the 1945 general election and led by Clement Attlee, moved quickly to tackle the most pressing issue facing the empire: that of Indian independence	Who led the British government elected in 1945?
The British Mandate of Palestine, where an Arab majority lived alongside a Jewish minority, presented the British with a similar problem to that of India	What race was the majority in Palestine in the 1940s?
The Malayan Emergency, as it was called, began in 1948 and lasted until 1960, but by 1957, Britain felt confident enough to grant independence to the Federation of Malaya within the Commonwealth	When did the Malayan Emergency begin?
In 1951, the Conservative Party returned to power in Britain, under the leadership of Winston Churchill	What party regained power in Britain in 1951?
In July 1956, Nasser unilaterally nationalised the Suez Canal	When was the Suez Canal nationalized?
The Suez Crisis very publicly exposed Britain's limitations to the world and confirmed Britain's decline on the world stage, demonstrating that henceforth it could no longer act without at least the acquiescence, if not the full support, of the United States	Where did 'Britain's Waterloo' occur?
The British withdrew from Aden in 1967, Bahrain in 1971, and Maldives in 1976	When did Britain withdraw from Aden?
Britain's remaining colonies in Africa, except for self-governing Southern Rhodesia, were all granted independence by 1968	What was the last British colony remaining in Africa?
Most of the UK's Caribbean territories achieved independence after the departure in 1961 and 1962 of Jamaica and Trinidad from the West Indies Federation, established in 1958 in an attempt to unite the British Caribbean colonies under one government, but which collapsed following the loss of its two largest members	Which British territory received independence in 1961?
In 1982, Britain's resolve in defending its remaining overseas territories was tested when Argentina invaded the Falkland Islands, acting on a long-standing claim that dated back to the Spanish Empire	When was Canada given full control of its constitution?
In September 1982, Prime minister Margaret Thatcher travelled to Beijing to negotiate with the Chinese government on the future of Britain's last major and most populous overseas territory, Hong Kong	Who was the British Prime Minister in 1982?
Britain retains sovereignty over 14 territories outside the British Isles, which were renamed the British Overseas Territories in 2002	How many overseas territories does Britain still have?
Most former British colonies and protectorates are among the 53 member states of the Commonwealth of Nations, a non-political, voluntary association of equal members, comprising a population of around 2	How many Commonwealth nations are there?
Millions left the British Isles, with the founding settler populations of the United States, Canada, Australia and New Zealand coming mainly from Britain and Ireland	In which countries did the British Isles provide most of the founding settlers?
Botany, also called plant science or plant biology, is the science of plant life and a branch of biology	What is botany?
Botany originated in prehistory as herbalism with the efforts of early humans to identify – and later cultivate – edible, medicinal and poisonous plants, making it one of the oldest branches of science	What science led to botany?
Dominant themes in 21st century plant science are molecular genetics and epigenetics, which are the mechanisms and control of gene expression during differentiation of plant cells and tissues	What is are the main themes of present-day botany?
Another work from Ancient Greece that made an early impact on botany is De Materia Medica, a five-volume encyclopedia about herbal medicine written in the middle of the first century by Greek physician and pharmacologist Pedanius Dioscorides	What is the name of an ancient Greek work impacting botany?
"In the mid-16th century, ""botanical gardens"" were founded in a number of Italian universities – the Padua botanical garden in 1545 is usually considered to be the first which is still in its original location"	What was the first botanical garden at an Italian university?
Physician Valerius Cordus authored a botanically and pharmacologically important herbal Historia Plantarum in 1544 and a pharmacopoeia of lasting importance, the Dispensatorium in 1546	Who wrote Historia Plantarum in 1544?
family, genus and species) by making a series of choices between pairs of characters	What is the meaning of dichotomous keys?
Increasing knowledge of plant anatomy, morphology and life cycles led to the realisation that there were more natural affinities between plants than the artificial sexual system of Linnaeus had indicated	What led scientists to believe that plants should be classified according to something other than just sexual system?
"Botany was greatly stimulated by the appearance of the first ""modern"" text book, Matthias Schleiden's Grundzüge der Wissenschaftlichen Botanik, published in English in 1849 as Principles of Scientific Botany"	What was the first modern text book?
The discipline of plant ecology was pioneered in the late 19th century by botanists such as Eugenius Warming, who produced the hypothesis that plants form communities, and his mentor and successor Christen C	What did Warming believe that plants can do?
Particularly since the mid-1960s there have been advances in understanding of the physics of plant physiological processes such as transpiration , the temperature dependence of rates of water evaporation from the leaf surface and the molecular diffusion of water vapour and carbon dioxide through stomatal apertures	What is transpiration?
20th century developments in plant biochemistry have been driven by modern techniques of organic chemical analysis, such as spectroscopy, chromatography and electrophoresis	What enables scientists to better study plants now?
Modern systematics aims to reflect and discover phylogenetic relationships between plants	What kind of relationships does systematics aim to discover?
The study of plants is vital because they underpin almost all animal life on Earth by generating a large proportion of the oxygen and food that provide humans and other organisms with aerobic respiration with the chemical energy they need to exist	Why are plants important to human life?
"The strictest definition of ""plant"" includes only the ""land plants"" or embryophytes, which include seed plants and the free-sporing cryptogams including ferns, clubmosses, liverworts, hornworts and mosses"	What is the scientific name for seed plants?
Paleobotanists study ancient plants in the fossil record to provide information about the evolutionary history of plants	What is the study of ancient, fossilized plants?
Plants and other photosynthetic organisms are at the base of most food chains because they use the energy from the sun and nutrients from the soil and atmosphere, converting them into a form that can be used by animals	Why do food chains start with plants?
"Plants and various other groups of photosynthetic eukaryotes collectively known as ""algae"" have unique organelles known as chloroplasts"	what parts of algae are unique to them?
The light energy captured by chlorophyll a is initially in the form of electrons that's used to make molecules of ATP and NADPH which temporarily store and transport energy	What is the function of ATP and NADPH molecules?
Vascular land plants make lignin, a polymer used to strengthen the secondary cell walls of xylem tracheids and vessels to keep them from collapsing when a plant sucks water through them under water stress	What polymer is used to strengthen cell walls?
Phytochemistry is a branch of plant biochemistry primarily concerned with the chemical substances produced by plants during secondary metabolism	What is the study of the chemicals that plants produce?
Charcoal, a pure form of carbon made by pyrolysis of wood, has a long history as a metal-smelting fuel, as a filter material and adsorbent and as an artist's material and is one of the three ingredients of gunpowder	How is charcoal made?
Plant ecology is the science of the functional relationships between plants and their habitats—the environments where they complete their life cycles	What are plant habitats?
Plants compete with other organisms in their ecosystem for resources	How do plants interact with other species in their environment?
For example, plant phenology can be a useful proxy for temperature in historical climatology, and the biological impact of climate change and global warming	How can historical changes in the environment be detected?
Inheritance in plants follows the same fundamental principles of genetics as in other multicellular organisms	Does inheritance work differently in plants?
Species boundaries in plants may be weaker than in animals, and cross species hybrids are often possible	Are plants able to mate across species?
Particularly in arctic or alpine habitats, where opportunities for fertilisation of flowers by animals are rare, plantlets or bulbs, may develop instead of flowers, replacing sexual reproduction with asexual reproduction and giving rise to clonal populations genetically identical to the parent	Why do plants develop bulbs?
Most sexually reproducing organisms are diploid, with paired chromosomes, but doubling of their chromosome number may occur due to errors in cytokinesis	What can cause the doubling of chromosome pairs?
A considerable amount of new knowledge about plant function comes from studies of the molecular genetics of model plants such as the Thale cress, Arabidopsis thaliana, a weedy species in the mustard family 	What was the first plant to have its genome sequenced?
Ideally, these organisms have small genomes that are well known or completely sequenced, small stature and short generation times	Why is a plant chosen for the study of its cells?
Agrobacterium tumefaciens, a soil rhizosphere bacterium, can attach to plant cells and infect them with a callus-inducing Ti plasmid by horizontal gene transfer, causing a callus infection called crown gall disease	How can a bacteria in the soil affect a plant?
Epigenetics is the study of mitotically and/or meiotically heritable changes in gene function that cannot be explained by changes in the underlying DNA sequence but cause the organism's genes to behave differently	What does epigenetics study?
Epigenetic changes in eukaryotic biology serve to regulate the process of cellular differentiation	What process causes changes in plant cells?
Unlike animals, many plant cells, particularly those of the parenchyma, do not terminally differentiate, remaining totipotent with the ability to give rise to a new individual plant	Does cell division end in plants?
The algae are a polyphyletic group and are placed in various divisions, some more closely related to plants than others	Are all algae different from land plants?
Nonvascular land plants are embryophytes that lack the vascular tissues xylem and phloem	What makes mosses different from other land plants?
Chemicals obtained from the air, soil and water form the basis of all plant metabolism	What does the plant use for internal processes?
Minerals and water are transported from roots to other parts of the plant in the transpiration stream	How is water transported into plants?
The hypothesis that plant growth and development is coordinated by plant hormones or plant growth regulators first emerged in the late 19th century	When was the theory of plant hormones introduced?
Cytokinins are a class of plant hormones named for their control of cell division or cytokinesis	What are cytokinins responsible for in plants?
Plant anatomy is the study of the structure of plant cells and tissues, whereas plant morphology is the study of their external form	What is the study of the inside of plants?
The shoots consist of stems bearing green photosynthesising leaves and reproductive structures	What makes up the bodies of vascular plants?
The root system and the shoot system are interdependent – the usually nonphotosynthetic root system depends on the shoot system for food, and the usually photosynthetic shoot system depends on water and minerals from the root system	Do the roots and shoots need each other?
Stems mainly provide support to the leaves and reproductive structures, but can store water in succulent plants such as cacti, food as in potato tubers, or reproduce vegetatively as in the stolons of strawberry plants or in the process of layering	What are the stems used for in cacti?
Modern taxonomy is rooted in the work of Carl Linnaeus, who grouped species according to shared physical characteristics	How did Linnaeus group organisms?
Kingdom Plantae belongs to Domain Eukarya and is broken down recursively until each species is separately classified	What is the main grouping of a plant know as?
The evolutionary relationships and heredity of a group of organisms is called its phylogeny	What does the phylogeny of a group represent?
Judging relationships based on shared characters requires care, since plants may resemble one another through convergent evolution in which characters have arisen independently	Why might two plants be similar but not actually be in the same group?
From the 1990s onwards, the predominant approach to constructing phylogenies for living plants has been molecular phylogenetics, which uses molecular characters, particularly DNA sequences, rather than morphological characters like the presence or absence of spines and areoles	What is used now to group plants?
In 1998 the Angiosperm Phylogeny Group published a phylogeny for flowering plants based on an analysis of DNA sequences from most families of flowering plants	What was the first plant grouping based on DNA sequencing?
Madonna Louise Ciccone ; born August 16, 1958) is an American singer, songwriter, actress, and businesswoman	What is Madonna's real name?
Born in Bay City, Michigan, Madonna moved to New York City in 1977 to pursue a career in modern dance	Where was Madonna born?
Madonna's popularity was further enhanced by her film roles, including Desperately Seeking Susan , Dick Tracy , and Evita ; the latter earned her a Golden Globe Award for Best Actress	Name a film role that Madonna acted in.
Having sold more than 300 million records worldwide, Madonna is recognized as the best-selling female recording artist of all time by Guinness World Records	How many records did Madonna sell worldwide?
"Madonna was born to Catholic parents Silvio Anthony ""Tony"" Ciccone (b"	Madonna was born to which religion?
Upon being confirmed in 1966, she adopted Veronica as a confirmation name	Which name did Madonna adopted as her confirmation name?
Madonna turned to her paternal grandmother for solace	Who did Madonna turn to for comfort during her mother's illness?
In 1966, Tony married the family's housekeeper Joan Gustafson; they had two children, Jennifer and Mario 	In 1966, who did Tony married?
In 1978, she dropped out of college and relocated to New York City	When did Madonna drop out of college?
While performing as a backup singer and dancer for the French disco artist Patrick Hernandez on his 1979 world tour, Madonna became romantically involved with musician Dan Gilroy	Which year was Patrick Hernandez's world tour held?
"After Madonna signed a singles deal with Sire, her debut single, ""Everybody"", was released in October 1982, and the second, ""Burning Up"", in March 1983"	What was Madonna's debut single called?
"Madonna moved in with boyfriend John ""Jellybean"" Benitez, asking his help for finishing the album's production"	Who was the boyfriend that Madonna moved in with?
Madonna's look and style of dressing, her performances, and her music videos influenced young girls and women	Who did Madonna's look and style of dressing influence?
"Madonna was criticized for her performance of ""Like a Virgin"" at the first 1984 MTV Video Music Awards "	Madonna was criticized for her performance of which song in the VMA?
Madonna entered mainstream films in February 1985, beginning with a brief appearance as a club singer in Vision Quest, a romantic drama film	When did Madonna enter mainstream films?
Beginning in April 1985, Madonna embarked on her first concert tour in North America, The Virgin Tour, with the Beastie Boys as her opening act	When was Madonna's first concert tour in North America?
In June 1986, Madonna released her third studio album, True Blue, which was inspired by and dedicated to Sean Penn	When was Madonna's third album released?
In January 1989, Madonna signed an endorsement deal with soft-drink manufacturer, Pepsi	When did Madonna sign an endorsement deal with Pepsi?
Madonna starred as Breathless Mahoney in the film Dick Tracy , with Warren Beatty playing the title role	In the film Dick Tracy, who did Madonna starred as?
The Immaculate Collection, Madonna's first greatest-hits compilation album, was released in November 1990	What is Madonna's compilation album called?
In 1992, Madonna had a role in A League of Their Own as Mae Mordabito, a baseball player on an all-women's team	Who did Madonna play in the role A League Of Their Own?
In September 1993, Madonna embarked on The Girlie Show World Tour, in which she dressed as a whip-cracking dominatrix surrounded by topless dancers	When was The Girlie Show World Tour?
The song was recorded for Alek Keshishian's film With Honors	"The song ""I'll Remember"" was recorded for which film?"
In Evita , Madonna played the title role of Eva Perón	In the film Evita, who did Madonna play?
"Zach Conner from Time magazine commented, ""It's a relief to say that Evita is pretty damn fine, well cast and handsomely visualized"	Who from Times magazine gave an excellent critique of the film Evita?
Madonna's seventh studio album, Ray of Light, reflected a change in her image	What is the name of Madonna's seventh album?
Ray of Light was honored with four Grammy Awards	How many Emmy awards did Ray of Light won?
"The 1998 edition of Guinness Book of World Records stated: ""No female artist has sold more records than Madonna around the world"""	Which edition of the Guinness Book of World Record states that no female artist sold more records than Madonna?
"In 2000, Madonna starred in the film The Next Best Thing, and contributed two songs to the film's soundtrack; ""Time Stood Still"" and a cover of Don McLean's 1971 song ""American Pie"""	What was the film that Madonna starred in 2000?
She met director Guy Ritchie, who would become her second husband, in November 1998 and gave birth to their son Rocco John Ritchie on August 11, 2000 in Los Angeles	Who is Madonna's second husband?
Madonna starred in the film Swept Away, directed by Ritchie	Which film did Madonna starred in that was directed by Ritchie?
Following Die Another Day, Madonna collaborated with fashion photographer Steven Klein in 2003 for an exhibition installation named X-STaTIC Pro=CeSS	What is the name of the exhibition installation that Madonna teamed up with fashion photographer Chris Klein called?
Madonna sparked controversy for kissing Spears and Aguilera suggestively during the performance	Who did Madonna kiss at the MTV Video Music Awards?
The next year Madonna and Maverick sued Warner Music Group and its former parent company Time Warner, claiming that mismanagement of resources and poor bookkeeping had cost the company millions of dollars	Madonna and Maverick sued which company for poor bookkeeping and mismanagement of resources?
In mid-2004 Madonna embarked on the Re-Invention World Tour in the U	When was the Re-Invention World Tour kick off?
Her tenth studio album, Confessions on a Dance Floor, was released in November 2005	What was the name of Madonna's tenth studio album?
Madonna embarked on the Confessions Tour in May 2006, which had a global audience of 1	When did the Confessions Tour start?
While on tour Madonna participated in the Raising Malawi initiative by partially funding an orphanage in and traveling to that country	What was the charity that Madonna was involved in when in Malawi?
"Madonna released the song ""Hey You"" for the Live Earth series of concerts"	What song did Madonna release for the Live Earth series of concerts?
Madonna released her eleventh studio album, Hard Candy, in April 2008	What was the name of Madonna's eleventh album?
"""4 Minutes"" was released as the album's lead single and peaked at number three on the Billboard Hot 100"	Which single was released as the album's lead single?
Life with My Sister Madonna, a book by Madonna's brother Christopher, debuted at number two on The New York Times bestseller list	What is the title of the book by Madonna's brother?
"Chifundo ""Mercy"" James was finally adopted in June 2009"	When was Mercy adopted?
Madonna performed at the Hope for Haiti Now: A Global Benefit for Earthquake Relief concert in January 2010	When did Madonna perform at the Hope for Haiti Now?
Madonna released the Material Girl clothing line, which she designed with her daughter, Lourdes	What is the name of the clothing line Madonna released with her daughter?
In 2012, Madonna performed at Super Bowl XLVI halftime show, visualized by Cirque Du Soleil and Jamie King and featured special guests LMFAO, Nicki Minaj, M	Which year did Madonna performed at the Super Bowl?
The MDNA Tour, which further promoted the album, began in May 2012 in Tel Aviv, Israel	Where did the MDNA Tour start?
By 2013, Madonna's Raising Malawi organization built ten schools to educate 4,000 children in Malawi at a value of $400,000	By 2013, how many did Madonna's Raising Malawi organization built?
Working with photographer Steven Klein, Madonna completed a 17-minute film called secretprojectrevolution	What was the name of the 17 minute film called?
"She appeared at the 56th Annual Grammy Awards in January 2014, performing ""Open Your Heart"" alongside rappers Macklemore & Ryan Lewis and singer Mary Lambert, who sang their single ""Same Love"", as 33 couples were wed onstage, officiated by Queen Latifah"	What award ceremony did Madonna appeared in?
In December 2014, thirteen demos recorded for the album leaked onto the Internet	When did Madonna's album demo leaked online?
Madonna's music has been the subject of much analysis and scrutiny	Whose music had been the subject of a lot of scrutiny?
Throughout her career Madonna has been involved in writing and producing most of her own music	Who writes and creates most of her own music?
Before emerging as a pop star, Madonna has spent her early years in rock music alongside her bands, Breakfast Club and Emmy	Which genre did Madonna started out in?
In True Blue, she incorporated classical music in order to engage an older audience who had been skeptical of her music	True Blue has what type of music Incorporated in it?
Madonna experimented with more folk and acoustic music in Music and American Life 	What type of music did Madonna experimented with in Music?
Possessing a mezzo-soprano vocal range, Madonna has always been self-conscious about her voice, especially in comparison to her vocal idols such as Ella Fitzgerald, Prince, and Chaka Khan	Madonna has which vocal range?
She learned to play drum and guitar from her then-boyfriend Dan Gilroy in the late 1970s before joining the Breakfast Club line-up as the drummer	Which instruments can Madonna play?
According to Taraborrelli, the defining moment of Madonna's childhood was the tragic and untimely death of her beloved mother	According to who was the defining moment of Madonna's childhood with her mother's death?
As they grew older Madonna and her sisters would feel deep sadness as the vivid memory of their mother began drifting farther from them	Who felt deep sadness as the death of their mother fades away?
"In 1985, Madonna commented that the first song to ever make a strong impression on her was ""These Boots Are Made for Walkin'"" by Nancy Sinatra; she said it summed up her own ""take-charge attitude"""	Which song made a strong impression on Madonna?
Madonna's Italian-Catholic background and her relationship with her parents are reflected in the album Like a Prayer	What is Madonna's religious background?
"During her childhood, Madonna was inspired by actors, later saying, ""I loved Carole Lombard and Judy Holliday and Marilyn Monroe"	Name one actor that Madonna was inspired by?
Influences also came to her from the art world, most notably through the works of Mexican artist Frida Kahlo	Whose art influence Madonna?
"Madonna is dedicated to Kabbalah, and in 2004 she adopted the name Esther which in Persian means ""star"""	Which religion was Madonna dedicated to?
In The Madonna Companion biographers Allen Metz and Carol Benson noted that more than any other recent pop artist, Madonna had used MTV and music videos to establish her popularity and enhance her recorded work	Who are the Madonna Companion Biographers?
Madonna's initial music videos reflected her American and Hispanic mixed street style combined with a flamboyant glamor	What influence did Madonna music video reflects?
Academics noted that with her videos, Madonna was subtly reversing the usual role of male as the dominant sex	Who noted that Madonna was reversing the gender role?
"He added, ""Artists like Madonna and Janet Jackson set new standards for showmanship, with concerts that included not only elaborate costumes and precision-timed pyrotechnics but also highly athletic dancing"	Who had new standards of showmanship?
To allow for greater movement while dancing and singing, Madonna was one of the earliest adopters of hands-free radio-frequency headset microphones, with the headset fastened over the ears or the top of the head, and the microphone capsule on a boom arm that extended to the mouth	What did Madonna use in her concerts?
Various music journalists, critical theorists, and authors have deemed Madonna the most influential female recording artist of all time	Who is the most influential recording artist of all time?
"According to Tony Sclafani from MSNBC, ""It's worth noting that before Madonna, most music mega-stars were guy rockers; after her, almost all would be female singers"	Who changed the dynamics of the singers back to mostly female?
Madonna's use of sexual imagery has benefited her career and catalyzed public discourse on sexuality and feminism	Madonna used what to benefit her career?
"Madonna has received acclaim as a role model for businesswomen in her industry, ""achieving the kind of financial control that women had long fought for within the industry"", and generating over $1"	Who is an acclaim role model business woman?
Madonna has sold more than 300 million records worldwide	Madonna sold how many albums worldwide?
Madonna holds the record for the most number-ones on all combined Billboard charts, including twelve number-one songs on the Billboard Hot 100 and eight number-one albums on the Billboard 200	Who holds the record for the most number 1 hits?
The law of the United States comprises many levels of codified and uncodified forms of law, of which the most important is the United States Constitution, the foundation of the federal government of the United States	What is the foundation of the United States federal government?
Federal law and treaties, so long as they are in accordance with the Constitution, preempt conflicting state and territorial laws in the 50 U	What comes before state and territorial laws in the 50 U.S states?
Notably, a statute does not disappear automatically merely because it has been found unconstitutional; it must be deleted by a subsequent statute	In order for a unconstitutional statue to disappear, it has to be deleted by? 
Notably, the most broadly influential innovation of 20th-century American tort law was the rule of strict liability for defective products, which originated with judicial glosses on the law of warranty	The rule of liability for defective products originated from what law?
Tort law covers the entire imaginable spectrum of wrongs which humans can inflict upon each other, and of course, partially overlaps with wrongs also punishable by criminal law	What law covers wrongs which humans can inflict upon each other?
However, it is important to understand that despite the presence of reception statutes, much of contemporary American common law has diverged significantly from English common law	A lot of American common law diverged from where?
"states except Louisiana have enacted ""reception statutes"" which generally state that the common law of England is the law of the state to the extent that it is not repugnant to domestic law or indigenous conditions"	Reception statues are generally the same as what law?
Early on, American courts, even after the Revolution, often did cite contemporary English cases	early on American courts cited what cases?
Federal law originates with the Constitution, which gives Congress the power to enact statutes for certain limited purposes like regulating interstate commerce	What does federal law come from?
Since the start of the 20th century, broad interpretations of the Commerce and Spending Clauses of the Constitution have enabled federal law to expand into areas like aviation, telecommunications, railroads, pharmaceuticals, antitrust, and trademarks	What areas of the Constitution deal with issuses such as aviation, railroads, and trademarks?
After the President signs a bill into law , it is delivered to the Office of the Federal Register of the National Archives and Records Administration where it is assigned a law number, and prepared for publication as a slip law	Who signs a bill into a law?
Congress often enacts statutes that grant broad rulemaking authority to federal agencies	What does congress often grant to give rulemaking authority to federal agencies?
The difficult question is whether federal judicial power extends to formulating binding precedent through strict adherence to the rule of stare decisis	What is used to determine whether federal judicial power extends to formulating binding precedent?
As federal judge Alex Kozinski has pointed out, binding precedent as we know it today simply did not exist at the time the Constitution was framed	Who has noted that binding precedent did not exist when the Constitution was written?
Unlike the situation with the states, there is no plenary reception statute at the federal level that continued the common law and thereby granted federal courts the power to formulate legal precedent like their English predecessors	How did the federal agencies differ from their English counter-parts?
in the nineteenth century only after the creation of a clear court hierarchy , and the beginning of regular verbatim publication of U	When did binding precedent become possible in the United States?
Tompkins , there is no general federal common law	When was the doctrine of Erie Railroad Co. v. Tompkins put into effect?
The other major implication of the Erie doctrine is that federal courts cannot dictate the content of state law when there is no federal issue in a case	What is a major implication of the Erie doctrine?
The fifty American states are separate sovereigns, with their own state constitutions, state governments, and state courts	What does each state posess?
Most cases are litigated in state courts and involve claims and defenses under state laws	Where are cases usually argued?
The law of criminal procedure in the United States consists of a massive overlay of federal constitutional case law interwoven with the federal and state statutes that actually provide the foundation for the creation and operation of law enforcement agencies and prison systems as well as the proceedings in criminal trials	What makes up the law of criminal procedure?
The law of civil procedure governs process in all judicial proceedings involving lawsuits between private parties	What is over all judicial proceedings involving private party lawsuits?
New York, Illinois, and California are the most significant states that have not adopted the FRCP	Which states have not adopted FRCP?
"Generally, American civil procedure has several notable features, including extensive pretrial discovery, heavy reliance on live testimony obtained at deposition or elicited in front of a jury, and aggressive pretrial ""law and motion"" practice designed to result in a pretrial disposition or a settlement"	What is extensive pretrial discovery a part of?
Criminal law involves the prosecution by the state of wrongful acts which are considered to be so serious that they are a breach of the sovereign's peace 	What is criminal law?
Some states distinguish between two levels: felonies and misdemeanors 	What two levels of crime are there?
Generally, contract law in transactions involving the sale of goods has become highly standardized nationwide as a result of the widespread adoption of the Uniform Commercial Code	What standardized contract law?
One-third of Myanmar's total perimeter of 1,930 km forms an uninterrupted coastline along the Bay of Bengal and the Andaman Sea	How much a Myanmar's boundaries are encompassed by beachfront lands?
Early civilisations in Myanmar included the Tibeto-Burman-speaking Pyu city-states in Upper Burma and the Mon kingdoms in Lower Burma	What were the names of some of the early cultures located in Myanmar?
In 2011, the military junta was officially dissolved following a 2010 general election, and a nominally civilian government was installed	What portion of the government was eventually separated from government participation? 
Both these names are derived from the name of the majority Burmese Bamar ethnic group	Where did the name Burma originate from ?
Burma continues to be used in English by the governments of many countries, such as Australia, Canada and the United Kingdom	By which name is the country called by most English speaking countries?
Archaeological evidence shows that Homo erectus lived in the region now known as Myanmar as early as 400,000 years ago	What extinct species of hominid that lived throughout most of the Pleistocene geological period is believed to have dwelled in Myanmar?
The Bronze Age arrived circa 1500 BC when people in the region were turning copper into bronze, growing rice and domesticating poultry and pigs; they were among the first people in the world to do so	By what name is the era in the 3rd millennium around 1500 BC known?
Around the second century BC the first-known city-states emerged in central Myanmar	What period was the first known city states established in Myanmar?
Pagan's collapse was followed by 250 years of political fragmentation that lasted well into the 16th century	How long did it take for Myanmar to recover from the collapse of it's first kingdom ?
Like the Pagan Empire, Ava, Hanthawaddy and the Shan states were all multi-ethnic polities	Was there more than one racial class in the organized societies of the states of Myanmar?
Taungoo's young, ambitious king Tabinshwehti defeated the more powerful Hanthawaddy in the Toungoo–Hanthawaddy War 	Who was the ruling monarchy when Taungoo, was vassal?
The dynasty regrouped and defeated the Portuguese in 1613 and Siam in 1614	How were the Portuguese expelled from Myanmar?
With Burma preoccupied by the Chinese threat, Ayutthaya recovered its territories by 1770, and went on to capture Lan Na by 1776	What was the event called that caused Ayutthaya to reclaim lost territories ?
For the first time in history, the Burmese language and culture came to predominate the entire Irrawaddy valley	What language eventually came to power in the Irrawaddy valley ?
Some of the discontent was caused by a disrespect for Burmese culture and traditions such as the British refusal to remove shoes when they entered pagodas	What were some of problems experienced with the colonialism of Burma by the British?
A major battleground, Burma was devastated during World War II	Was Burma effected by the world wars?
Following World War II, Aung San negotiated the Panglong Agreement with ethnic leaders that guaranteed the independence of Myanmar as a unified state	Who negotiated the agreement that Burma would be free from forgien rule ?
In 1988, unrest over economic mismanagement and political oppression by the government led to widespread pro-democracy demonstrations throughout the country known as the 8888 Uprising	What are the 1988 demonstrations in Burma called?
In August 2007, an increase in the price of diesel and petrol led to Saffron Revolution led by Buddhist monks that were dealt with harshly by the government	What was the cause of the insurrection in the summer of 2007 ?
In May 2008, Cyclone Nargis caused extensive damage in the densely populated, rice-farming delta of the Irrawaddy Division	What natural disaster caused detrimental effects to the Irrawaddy section of Burma in May of 2008 ? 
In October 2012 the number of ongoing conflicts in Myanmar included the Kachin conflict, between the Pro-Christian Kachin Independence Army and the government; a civil war between the Rohingya Muslims, and the government and non-government groups in Rakhine State; and a conflict between the Shan, Lahu and Karen minority groups, and the government in the eastern half of the country	In 2012 what was the the disturbance with the government running smoothly ? Burma? 
Armed conflict between ethnic Chinese rebels and the Myanmar Armed Forces have resulted in the Kokang offensive in February 2015	What country was Burma involved with in 2015
Observer accounts of the 2010 election describe the event as mostly peaceful; however, allegations of polling station irregularities were raised, and the United Nations and a number of Western countries condemned the elections as fraudulent	Where the elections of 2010 conducted fairly in Burma?
Opinions differ whether the transition to liberal democracy is underway	Is Burma now a democratic nation?
Since the 2010 election, the government has embarked on a series of reforms to direct the country towards liberal democracy, a mixed economy, and reconciliation, although doubts persist about the motives that underpin such reforms	In what direction is the government of Burma ultimately attempting to go?
The impact of the post-election reforms has been observed in numerous areas, including ASEAN's approval of Myanmar's bid for the position of ASEAN chair in 2014; the visit by United States Secretary of State Hillary Clinton in December 2011 for the encouragement of further progress—it was the first visit by a Secretary of State in more than fifty years ; and the participation of Aung San Suu Kyi's National League for Democracy party in the 2012 by-elections, facilitated by the government's abolition of the laws that previously barred the NLD	Have the changes in Burmese law been of benefit to the country in international views ? 
In 1 April 2012 by-elections the NLD won 43 of the 45 available seats; previously an illegal organisation, the NLD had never won a Burmese election until this time	Does the political party of Aung San Suu Ky hold any positions among the ruling faction ?
Burma is bordered in the northwest by the Chittagong Division of Bangladesh and the Mizoram, Manipur, Nagaland and Arunachal Pradesh states of India	What countries surround the border that is opposite the southwest border of Burma?
Much of the country lies between the Tropic of Cancer and the Equator	Where does the majority of the Burmese country fall on the globe ?
In upper Myanmar, there are rhinoceros, wild buffalo, wild boars, deer, antelope, and elephants, which are also tamed or bred in captivity for use as work animals, particularly in the lumber industry	What industry is supported by animal labor in Burma ?
The elections of 2010 resulted in a victory for the military-backed Union Solidarity and Development Party	What was the name of the winning unit in the 2010 elections in Burma ?
After years of diplomatic isolation and economic and military sanctions, the United States relaxed curbs on foreign aid to Myanmar in November 2011 and announced the resumption of diplomatic relations on 13 January 2012 The European Union has placed sanctions on Myanmar, including an arms embargo, cessation of trade preferences, and suspension of all aid with the exception of humanitarian aid	What did the United States do in response to the reform changes of the 2010 Burma elections ? 
Sanctions imposed by the United States and European countries against the former military government, coupled with boycotts and other direct pressure on corporations by supporters of the democracy movement, have resulted in the withdrawal from the country of most US and many European companies	How are international businesses discouraged from operating in Burma?
Despite Western isolation, Asian corporations have generally remained willing to continue investing in the country and to initiate new investments, particularly in natural resource extraction	How do Asian countries feel about the European attitude towards Burma ?
In 2008, India suspended military aid to Myanmar over the issue of human rights abuses by the ruling junta, although it has preserved extensive commercial ties, which provide the regime with much-needed revenue	Why did India stop supporting the military in Myanmar in 2008 ?
In May 2013, Thein Sein became the first Myanmar president to visit the White House in 47 years; the last Burmese leader to visit the White House was Ne Win in September 1966	Who is the first official Burmese delegate to visit the white house following the 2010 elections in Burma ?
Myanmar has received extensive military aid from China in the past Myanmar has been a member of ASEAN since 1997	What country has provided Burma with the most military aid ?
Myanmar's armed forces are known as the Tatmadaw, which numbers 488,000	What is the name of the military in Burma ?
In January 2007, Russia and China vetoed a draft resolution before the United Nations Security Council calling on the government of Myanmar to respect human rights and begin a democratic transition	What did China and Russia both do in 2008 ?
There is consensus that the military regime in Myanmar is one of the world's most repressive and abusive regimes	What is the general view of Burma ?
International human rights organisations including Human Rights Watch, Amnesty International and the American Association for the Advancement of Science have repeatedly documented and condemned widespread human rights violations in Myanmar	What are the names of some of the human right organizations that have been involved in Burmese relations. 
"The Independent reported in June 2012 that ""Children are being sold as conscripts into the Burmese military for as little as $40 and a bag of rice or a can of petrol"	How are children obtained for use as solders in Burma ? 
The Rohingya people have consistently faced human rights abuses by the Burmese regime that has refused to acknowledge them as Burmese citizens —the Rohingya have been denied Burmese citizenship since the enactment of a 1982 citizenship law	What section of the Burmese population is routinely discriminated against ?
In 2007 the German professor Bassam Tibi suggested that the Rohingya conflict may be driven by an Islamist political agenda to impose religious laws, while non-religious causes have also been raised, such as a lingering resentment over the violence that occurred during the Japanese occupation of Burma in World War II—during this time period the British allied themselves with the Rohingya and fought against the puppet government of Burma that helped to establish the Tatmadaw military organisation that remains in power as of March 2013	What is believed to be one of the potential religious instigators for the stiff in Burma against a certain race ?
Since the democratic transition began in 2011, there has been continuous violence as 280 people have been killed and 140,000 forced to flee from their homes in the Rakhine state	Has the violence in Burma decreased over the years as the country has tried made democratic strides ?
The immediate cause of the riots is unclear, with many commentators citing the killing of ten Burmese Muslims by ethnic Rakhine after the rape and murder of a Rakhine woman as the main cause	What was believed to be one of the Burma reasons for the unrest in 2012 ?
The government has responded by imposing curfews and by deploying troops in the regions	How did the Burmese government respond to the unrest in 2012 ?
"Restrictions on media censorship were significantly eased in August 2012 following demonstrations by hundreds of protesters who wore shirts demanding that the government ""Stop Killing the Press"	Have there been any changes to restrictions placed on the communications networks in Burma ?
According to the Crisis Group, since Myanmar transitioned to a new government in August 2011, the country's human rights record has been improving	What is the name of the individuals who gave relevant information on the recent events in Burma ?
The government has assembled a National Human Rights Commission that consists of 15 members from various backgrounds	What did the government bring together ?
A 2011 report by the Hauser Center for Nonprofit Organizations found that, while contact with the Myanmar government was constrained by donor restrictions, international humanitarian non-governmental organisations see opportunities for effective advocacy with government officials, especially at the local level	Are there any groups who are able to effectively operate in Burma ?
Following Thein Sein's first ever visit to the UK and a meeting with Prime Minister David Cameron, the Myanmar president declared that all of his nation's political prisoners will be released by the end of 2013, in addition to a statement of support for the well-being of the Rohingya Muslim community	What official was the first to visit the grounds of Great Britain from Burma?
It had been the world's largest exporter of rice	What was Burma's greatest export during that time of English rule ?
Myanmar was bombed extensively by both sides	What lead to the architectural changes in Myanmar ?
The major agricultural product is rice, which covers about 60% of the country's total cultivated land area	What is the major farming production crop in Burma? 
Many US and European jewellery companies, including Bulgari, Tiffany, and Cartier, refuse to import these stones based on reports of deplorable working conditions in the mines	What is the difficulty with expanding the gem business in Burma ?
The most popular available tourist destinations in Myanmar include big cities such as Yangon and Mandalay; religious sites in Mon State, Pindaya, Bago and Hpa-An; nature trails in Inle Lake, Kengtung, Putao, Pyin Oo Lwin; ancient cities such as Bagan and Mrauk-U; as well as beaches in Nabule, Ngapali, Ngwe-Saung, Mergui	Name two of the metropolitan areas that are enjoyed most frequently by tourist in Myanmar ?
The most common way for travellers to enter the country seems to be by air	How are most visitors ushered into the city of Myanmar ?
Flights are available from most countries, though direct flights are limited to mainly Thai and other ASEAN airlines	Can one travel by plane from any country in Myanmar ?
In December 2014, Myanmar signed an agreement to set up its first stock exchange	What occurred in the winter of 2014 of significance for Myanmar ?
The provisional results of the 2014 Myanmar Census show that the total population is 51,419,420	How many are estimated people live in Burma officially?
The Bamar form an estimated 68% of the population	What is the largest percentage of the Burmese populace ?
Mon, who form 2% of the population, are ethno-linguistically related to the Khmer	What percentage of people in Burma are related by linguistically lines to the Khmer. 
The two major Indo-European languages are Pali, the liturgical language of Theravada Buddhism, and English	What are the primary languages of Europe that are used in Burma ?
Burmese, the mother tongue of the Bamar and official language of Myanmar, is related to Tibetan and Chinese language	What is the matriarchal brogue of Burma that became the countries' standard vernacular ?
Many religions are practised in Myanmar	Does Burma have more than one religion ?
According to Pew Research, 7% of the population identifies as Christian; 4% as Muslim; 1% follows traditional animistic beliefs; and 2% follow other religions, including Mahayana Buddhism, Hinduism, and East Asian religions	What part of the populace does not identify with conformists religious majority?
The educational system of Myanmar is operated by the government agency, the Ministry of Education	Who runs the school system in Myanmar ?
Bamar culture has been influenced by the cultures of neighbouring countries	Have these cultures developed on there own over time ?
A novitiation ceremony called shinbyu is the most important coming of age events for a boy, during which he enters the monastery for a short time	What event is exceedingly relevant for young males that involves monks in Burma ? 
Colonial architectural influences are most evident in major cities such as Yangon	What evidence of previous rule is evident in the buildings in Burma ?
Mohinga is the traditional breakfast dish and is Myanmar's national dish	What is the time-honored dish served for the morning meal in Burma ?
Myanmar's first film was a documentary of the funeral of Tun Shein — a leading politician of the 1910s, who campaigned for Burmese independence in London	What was the first motion picture about someone's life filmed in Myanmar ?
Jews originated as a national and religious group in the Middle East during the second millennium BCE, in the part of the Levant known as the Land of Israel	Which group originated as a national and religious group in the Middle East during the second millennium BCE, in the part of the Levant known as the Land of Israel?
According to a report published in 2014, about 43% of all Jews reside in Israel (6	What percentage of Jews reside in Israel?
"), and بَنُو اِسرَائِيل banū isrāʼīl in Arabic, ""Jude"" in German, ""judeu"" in Portuguese, ""juif"" in French, ""jøde"" in Danish and Norwegian, ""judío"" in Spanish, ""jood"" in Dutch, etc"	What is the origin of the word Yiddish?
According to the Hebrew Bible narrative, Jewish ancestry is traced back to the Biblical patriarchs such as Abraham, Isaac and Jacob, and the Biblical matriarchs Sarah, Rebecca, Leah, and Rachel, who lived in Canaan around the 18th century BCE	Name one person that Jewish ancestry traced back to?
Modern archaeology has largely discarded the historicity of the Patriarchs and of the Exodus story, with it being reframed as constituting the Israelites' inspiring national myth narrative	Which culture was largely Canaanite in nature?
Although the Israelites were divided into Twelve Tribes, the Jews are traditionally said to descend mostly from the Israelite tribes of Judah and Benjamin, and partially from the tribe of Levi, who had together formed the ancient Kingdom of Judah, and the remnants of the northern Kingdom of Israel who migrated to the Kingdom of Judah and assimilated after the 720s BCE, when the Kingdom of Israel was conquered by the Neo-Assyrian Empire	What group was divided into Twelve Tribes?
Israelites enjoyed political independence twice in ancient history, first during the periods of the Biblical judges followed by the United Monarchy	How many times did Israelites have political independence in ancient history? 
Genetic studies on Jews show that most Jews worldwide bear a common genetic heritage which originates in the Middle East, and that they bear their strongest resemblance to the peoples of the Fertile Crescent	Genetic studies show that Jews bear their strongest resemblance to the peoples of where?
The Hebrew Bible, a religious interpretation of the traditions and early national history of the Jews, established the first of the Abrahamic religions, which are now practiced by 54% of the world	What book is considered a religious interpretation of the traditions and early national history of the Jews?
Generally, in modern secular usage Jews include three groups: people who were born to a Jewish family regardless of whether or not they follow the religion, those who have some Jewish ancestral background or lineage , and people without any Jewish ancestral background or lineage who have formally converted to Judaism and therefore are followers of the religion	In modern secular usage Jews include how many groups?
Historical definitions of Jewish identity have traditionally been based on halakhic definitions of matrilineal descent, and halakhic conversions	What have historical definitions of Jewish identity been based on?
Second, the Tannaim may have been influenced by Roman law, which dictated that when a parent could not contract a legal marriage, offspring would follow the mother	What dictated that when a parent could not contract a legal marriage, offspring would follow the mother?
By the 1st century, Babylonia, to which Jews migrated to after the Babylonian conquest as well as after the Bar Kokhba revolt in 135 CE, already held a speedily growing population of an estimated 1,000,000 Jews, which increased to an estimated 2 million between the years 200 CE – 500 CE, both by natural growth and by immigration of more Jews from the Land of Israel, making up about 1/6 of the world Jewish population at that era	Where did Jews migrate to after the Babylonian conquest?
The Fiscus Judaicus, a tax imposed on Jews in 70 CE and relaxed to exclude Christians in 96 CE, also limited Judaism's appeal	What is a tax imposed on Jews in 70 CE?
An array of Jewish communities was established by Jewish settlers in various places around the Old World, often at great distances from one another, resulting in effective and often long-term isolation	What resulted in effective and long-term isolation of Jewish communities?
Jews are often identified as belonging to one of two major groups: the Ashkenazim and the Sephardim	Name one major group that Jews are often identified as belonging to.
In modern usage, however, the Mizrahim are sometimes termed Sephardi due to similar styles of liturgy, despite independent development from Sephardim proper	In modern usage, why is Mizrahim sometimes termed Sephardi?
Ashkenazi Jews represent the bulk of modern Jewry, with at least 70% of Jews worldwide 	What group of Jews represent the bulk of modern Jewry?
Hebrew is the liturgical language of Judaism , the language in which most of the Hebrew scriptures were composed, and the daily speech of the Jewish people for centuries	What is the liturgical language of Judaism?
Yiddish is the Judæo-German language developed by Ashkenazi Jews who migrated to Central Europe	What is the Judaeo-German language developed by Ashkenazi Jews who migrated to Central Europe?
Although many Jews once had sufficient knowledge of Hebrew to study the classic literature, and Jewish languages like Yiddish and Ladino were commonly used as recently as the early 20th century, most Jews lack such knowledge today and English has by and large superseded most Jewish vernaculars	What language is spoken by more Jews in history than any other language?
For example, Ashkenazi Jews share more common paternal lineages with other Jewish and Middle Eastern groups than with non-Jewish populations in areas where Jews lived in Eastern Europe, Germany and the French Rhine Valley	Ashkenazi Jews share more common paternal lineages with what group?
Studies of autosomal DNA, which look at the entire DNA mixture, have become increasingly important as the technology develops	What looks at the entire DNA mixture?
The studies also show that the Sephardic Bnei Anusim of Iberia (estimated at about 19	What are Sephardic Bnei Anusim?
Between 1948 and 1958, the Jewish population rose from 800,000 to two million	What years did the Jewish population rise from 800,000 to two million?
More than half of the Jews live in the Diaspora 	More than half of the Jews live where?
Western Europe's largest Jewish community, and the third-largest Jewish community in the world, can be found in France, home to between 483,000 and 500,000 Jews, the majority of whom are immigrants or refugees from North African Arab countries such as Algeria, Morocco, and Tunisia 	Where is Western Europe's largest Jewish community?
Prior to 1948, approximately 800,000 Jews were living in lands which now make up the Arab world 	Prior to 1948, how many Jews were living in lands which now make up the Arab world ?
The advent of the Jewish Enlightenment of the 18th century and the subsequent emancipation of the Jewish populations of Europe and America in the 19th century, accelerated the situation, encouraging Jews to increasingly participate in, and become part of, secular society	When did the advent of the Jewish Enlightenment occur?
Rates of interreligious marriage vary widely: In the United States, it is just under 50%, in the United Kingdom, around 53%; in France; around 30%, and in Australia and Mexico, as low as 10%	What is the rate of interreligious marriage in the United States?
In the Papal States, which existed until 1870, Jews were required to live only in specified neighborhoods called ghettos	When did the Papal States exist?
Traditionally Jews and Christians living in Muslim lands, known as dhimmis, were allowed to practice their religions and administer their internal affairs, but they were subject to certain conditions	What were Jews and Christians living in Muslim lands known as?
Notable exceptions include the massacre of Jews and forcible conversion of some Jews by the rulers of the Almohad dynasty in Al-Andalus in the 12th century, as well as in Islamic Persia, and the forced confinement of Moroccan Jews to walled quarters known as mellahs beginning from the 15th century and especially in the early 19th century	What were walled quarters known as?
Methods employed ranged from expulsion to outright genocide; within nations, often the threat of these extreme methods was sufficient to silence dissent	What was one method used to entirely eliminate Jewish populations?
The persecution reached a peak in Nazi Germany's Final Solution, which led to the Holocaust and the slaughter of approximately 6 million Jews	How many Jews were slaughtered in the Holocaust?
There is also a trend of Orthodox movements pursuing secular Jews in order to give them a stronger Jewish identity so there is less chance of intermarriage	What is one method used to prevent intermarriage?
The use of cotton for fabric is known to date to prehistoric times; fragments of cotton fabric dated from 5000 BC have been excavated in Mexico and the Indus Valley Civilization in Ancient India 	What is the most frequent use of cotton?
The earliest evidence of cotton use in South Asia has been found at the site of Mehrgarh, Pakistan, where cotton threads have been found preserved in copper beads; these finds have been dated to Neolithic 	Where in Southeast Asia has early use of cotton been discovered?
In Iran , the history of cotton dates back to the Achaemenid era ; however, there are few sources about the planting of cotton in pre-Islamic Iran	Use of cotton in Iran dates back to what period?
Though known since antiquity the commercial growing of cotton in Egypt only started in 1820's, following a Frenchman, by the name of M	When did cotton begin to be commercially grown in Egypt?
During the late medieval period, cotton became known as an imported fiber in northern Europe, without any knowledge of how it was derived, other than that it was a plant	In the late medieval period in Europe as what was cotton viewed?
India's cotton-processing sector gradually declined during British expansion in India and the establishment of colonial rule during the late 18th and early 19th centuries	How did British rule effect Indian cotton processing?
The advent of the Industrial Revolution in Britain provided a great boost to cotton manufacture, as textiles emerged as Britain's leading export	What event produced an expansion of the British cotton industry?
Production capacity in Britain and the United States was improved by the invention of the cotton gin by the American Eli Whitney in 1793	What invention improved the cotton industry in both America and Britain?
This, coupled with the emergence of American cotton as a superior type , encouraged British traders to purchase cotton from plantations in the United States and plantations in the Caribbean	What was the difference that made American cotton preferred over Indian cotton?
During the American Civil War, American cotton exports slumped due to a Union blockade on Southern ports, and also because of a strategic decision by the Confederate government to cut exports, hoping to force Britain to recognize the Confederacy or enter the war	When did the American cotton industry fail?
Across the South, sharecropping evolved, in which landless black and white farmers worked land owned by others in return for a share of the profits	What was the procedure called which involved workers to work for a share of the profits? 
Successful cultivation of cotton requires a long frost-free period, plenty of sunshine, and a moderate rainfall, usually from 600 to 1,200 mm 	What is the optimum amount of rainfall for cotton growth?
Genetically modified cotton was developed to reduce the heavy reliance on pesticides	To stop reliance on what was GM cotton developed?
A 2006 study done by Cornell researchers, the Center for Chinese Agricultural Policy and the Chinese Academy of Science on Bt cotton farming in China found that after seven years these secondary pests that were normally controlled by pesticide had increased, necessitating the use of pesticides at similar levels to non-Bt cotton and causing less profit for farmers because of the extra expense of GM seeds	In what year did a research study find that the use of Bt toxin plants failed to be effective after 7 years?
1 million hectares in 2011, so GM cotton was grown on 88% of the cotton area	What was the percentage of GM cotton planted in India in 2011?
Organic cotton is generally understood as cotton from plants not genetically modified and that is certified to be grown without the use of any synthetic agricultural chemicals, such as fertilizers or pesticides	What are organic plants understood to be?
Historically, in North America, one of the most economically destructive pests in cotton production has been the boll weevil	What insect is the most destructive pest in cotton growing in the US?
Most cotton in the United States, Europe and Australia is harvested mechanically, either by a cotton picker, a machine that removes the cotton from the boll without damaging the cotton plant, or by a cotton stripper, which strips the entire boll off the plant	How is most cotton harvested?
The era of manufactured fibers began with the development of rayon in France in the 1890s	What was the first manufactured fiber?
cotton producers in response to cotton's steady decline in market share	What prompted a help program produced by cotton producers in the 1960s?
Cotton is used to make a number of textile products	For what is cotton used to make?
The cottonseed which remains after the cotton is ginned is used to produce cottonseed oil, which, after refining, can be consumed by humans like any other vegetable oil	For what is cottonseed used after it is separate from the fibers?
Cotton linters are fine, silky fibers which adhere to the seeds of the cotton plant after ginning	What part of the cotton plant is used for paper manufacture?
Cotton lisle is a finely-spun, tightly twisted type of cotton that is noted for being strong and durable	What is a fine, tightly twisted type of cotton fabric?
The largest producers of cotton, currently , are China and India, with annual production of about 34 million bales and 33	In 2009 what were the largest producers of cotton?
The 25,000 cotton growers in the United States of America are heavily subsidized at the rate of $2 billion per year although China now provides the highest overall level of cotton sector support	How many subsidized cotton growers are in the US?
"While Brazil was fighting the US through the WTO's Dispute Settlement Mechanism against a heavily subsidized cotton industry, a group of four least-developed African countries – Benin, Burkina Faso, Chad, and Mali – also known as ""Cotton-4"" have been the leading protagonist for the reduction of US cotton subsidies through negotiations"	What was Brazil's argument against the US cotton industry?
In addition to concerns over subsidies, the cotton industries of some countries are criticized for employing child labor and damaging workers' health by exposure to pesticides used in production	What type of labor have some countries come under fire for employing?
They agreed on a strategy to sequence the genome of cultivated, tetraploid cotton	What is the final sequencing goal of sequencing diploid cotton genomes first ?
In 2010, two companies , completed enough Illumina sequencing to cover the D genome of G	What companies finished much of the sequencing of the D genome?
In signal processing, data compression, source coding, or bit-rate reduction involves encoding information using fewer bits than the original representation	What involves encoding information using fewer bits than the original representation?
Compression is useful because it helps reduce resource usage, such as data storage space or transmission capacity	What helps reduce resource usage?
Lossless data compression algorithms usually exploit statistical redundancy to represent data without losing any information, so that the process is reversible	What usually exploits statistical redundancy?
The Lempel–Ziv compression methods are among the most popular algorithms for lossless storage	What compression methods are among the most popular?
In a further refinement of the direct use of probabilistic modelling, statistical estimates can be coupled to an algorithm called arithmetic coding	What can be paired with an algorithm called arithmetic coding?
Lossy data compression is the converse of lossless data compression	What type of data compression is the converse of lossless date data compression?
In lossy audio compression, methods of psychoacoustics are used to remove non-audible components of the audio signal	What methods are used to remove non-audible components of audio signals?
There is a close connection between machine learning and compression: a system that predicts the posterior probabilities of a sequence given its entire history can be used for optimal data compression while an optimal compressor can be used for prediction 	What is Machine learning closely related to?
Data compression can be viewed as a special case of data differencing: Data differencing consists of producing a difference given a source and a target, with patching producing a target given a source and a difference, while data compression consists of producing a compressed file given a target, and decompression consists of producing a target given only a compressed file	What can be looked at as a special case of data differencing? 
Audio data compression, not to be confused with dynamic range compression, has the potential to reduce the transmission bandwidth and storage requirements of audio data	What has the potential to reduce the transmission bandwidth and storage requirements of audio data?
Lossless audio compression produces a representation of digital data that decompress to an exact digital duplicate of the original audio stream, unlike playback from lossy compression techniques such as Vorbis and MP3	What produces a representation of digital data that decompresses?
Lossy audio compression is used in a wide range of applications	What compression is used in a lot of applications?
Equal-loudness contours may also be used to weight the perceptual importance of components	What may be used to weight the importance of components?
Other types of lossy compressors, such as the linear predictive coding used with speech, are source-based coders	What is the coding called that is used with speech?
Latency results from the methods used to encode and decode the data	What results from methods used to encode and decode data?
In contrast to the speed of compression, which is proportional to the number of operations required by the algorithm, here latency refers to the number of samples that must be analysed before a block of audio is processed	What refers to the number of samples that must be analysed before a block of audio is processed?
If the data to be compressed is analog , quantization is employed to digitize it into numbers 	What varies with time?
A literature compendium for a large variety of audio coding systems was published in the IEEE Journal on Selected Areas in Communications , February 1988	What was published in the IEEE Journal in 1988?
The world's first commercial broadcast automation audio compression system was developed by Oscar Bonello, an engineering professor at the University of Buenos Aires	Who developed the first commercial broadcast automation audio compression system?
The majority of video compression algorithms use lossy compression	What all mostly use lossy compression?
Some video compression schemes typically operate on square-shaped groups of neighboring pixels, often called macroblocks	What compression typically operate on square-shaped groups of pixels?
Video data may be represented as a series of still image frames	What may be represented as a series of still image frames?
This longer command still remains much shorter than intraframe compression	What still remains much shorter than intraframe compression?
Because interframe compression copies data from one frame to another, if the original frame is simply cut out , the following frames cannot be reconstructed properly	What copies data from one frame to another?
, those in standards approved by the ITU-T or ISO) apply a discrete cosine transform for spatial redundancy reduction	What do all commonly used video compression methods use?
Genetics compression algorithms are the latest generation of lossless algorithms that compress data using both conventional compression algorithms and genetic algorithms adapted to the specific datatype	What are the latest generation of lossless algorithms? 
The Sun had the largest circulation of any daily newspaper in the United Kingdom, but in late 2013 slipped to second largest Saturday newspaper behind the Daily Mail	Which newspaper overtook The Sun as largest Saturday UK newspaper?
On 26 February 2012, The Sun on Sunday was launched to replace the closed News of the World, employing some of its former journalists	Which newspaper did the The Sun on Sunday take the place of?
Research commissioned by Cecil King from Mark Abrams of Sussex University, The Newspaper Reading Public of Tomorrow, identified demographic changes which suggested reasons why the Herald might be in decline	Who ordered research on the Herald?
Seizing the opportunity to increase his presence on Fleet Street, he made an agreement with the print unions, promising fewer redundancies if he acquired the newspaper	What did the prospective owner of the paper promise?
Murdoch found he had such a rapport with Larry Lamb over lunch that other potential recruits as editor were not interviewed and Lamb was appointed as the first editor of the new Sun	What position did Larry Lamb take with the Sun?
Sex was used as an important element in the content and marketing the paper from the start, which Lamb believed was the most important part of his readers' lives	What did Lamb employ as an important theme from the beginning of the paper?
Politically, The Sun in the early Murdoch years, remained nominally Labour	What were the Sun's political leanings early on under Murdoch?
The editor, Larry Lamb, was originally from a Labour background, with a socialist upbringing while his temporary replacement Bernard Shrimsley was a middle-class uncommitted Conservative	Who temporarily replaced Larry Lamb?
The Daily Star had been launched in 1978 by Express Newspaper, and by 1981 had begun to affect sales of The Sun	What newspaper was founded by Express Newspaper?
On 1 May, The Sun claimed to have 'sponsored' a British missile	What did The Sun state that had it taken sponsorship of?
"One of the paper's best known front pages, published on 4 May 1982, commemorated the torpedoing of the Argentine ship the General Belgrano by running the story under the headline ""GOTCHA"""	What was the Sun's headline on 4 May 1982?
After HMS Sheffield was wrecked by an Argentinian attack, The Sun was heavily criticised and even mocked for its coverage of the war in The Daily Mirror and The Guardian, and the wider media queried the veracity of official information and worried about the number of casualties, The Sun gave its response	Which ship was the target of Argentinian aggression?
"During the general election of 1983 The Sun ran a front page featuring an unflattering photograph of Michael Foot, then aged almost 70, claiming he was unfit to be Prime Minister on grounds of his age, appearance and policies, alongside the headline ""Do You Really Want This Old Fool To Run Britain"	Who did The Sun say was not fit to be Prime Minister in 1983?
The Sun, during the Miners' strike of 1984–85, supported the police and the Thatcher government against the striking NUM miners, and in particular the union's president, Arthur Scargill	Who did The Sun support in the 1984-85 Miners' strike?
"Murdoch has responded to some of the arguments against the newspaper by saying that critics are ""snobs"" who want to ""impose their tastes on everyone else"", while MacKenzie claims the same critics are people who, if they ever had a ""popular idea"", would have to ""go and lie down in a dark room for half an hour"""	How did Murdoch describe critics of his newspaper?
According to Max Clifford: Read All About It, written by Clifford and Angela Levin, La Salle invented the story out of frustration with Starr who had been working on a book with McCaffrey	Who wrote Max Clifford: Read All About It?
Eventually resulting in 17 libel writs in total, The Sun ran a series of false stories about the pop musician Elton John from 25 February 1987	How many libel writs did The Sun get for their coverage of Elton John?
"Television personality Piers Morgan, a former editor of the Daily Mirror and of The Sun's Bizarre pop column, has said that during the late 1980s, at Kelvin MacKenzie's behest, he was ordered to speculate on the sexuality of male pop stars for a feature headlined ""The Poofs of Pop"""	What did Piers Morgan offer opinions about in a late 1980s column?
""" The Sun favourably cited the opinions of Lord Kilbracken, a member of the All Parliamentary Group on AIDS"	Whose opinion did The Sun trust in their AIDS reporting?
Critics stated that both The Sun and Lord Kilbracken cherry-picked the results from one specific study while ignoring other data reports on HIV infection and not just AIDS infection, which the critics viewed as unethical politicisation of a medical issue	What did critics believe about The Sun and Lord Kilbracken's ideas on AIDS?
"Under a front page headline ""The Truth"", the paper printed allegations provided to them that some fans picked the pockets of crushed victims, that others urinated on members of the emergency services as they tried to help and that some even assaulted a police constable ""whilst he was administering the kiss of life to a patient"	What did the paper report that some fans did?
The front page caused outrage in Liverpool, where the paper lost more than three-quarters of its estimated 55,000 daily sales and still sells poorly in the city more than 25 years later 	Where did The sun lose a large portion of its daily sales as a result of the front page?
"On 7 July 2004, in response to verbal attacks in Liverpool on Wayne Rooney, just before his transfer from Everton to Manchester United, who had sold his life story to The Sun, the paper devoted a full-page editorial to an apology for the ""awful error"" of its Hillsborough coverage and argued that Rooney should not be punished for its ""past sins"""	Which footballer was verbally attacked in Liverpool? 
The Sun remained loyal to Thatcher right up to her resignation in November 1990, despite the party's fall in popularity over the previous year following the introduction of the Poll tax 	When did Margaret Thatcher leave office?
"Despite its initial opposition to the closures, until 1997, the newspaper repeatedly called for the implementation of further Thatcherite policies, such as Royal Mail privatisation, and social security cutbacks, with leaders such as ""Peter Lilley is right, we can't carry on like this"", The paper showed hostility to the EU and approval of public spending cuts, tax cuts, and promotion of right-wing ministers to the cabinet, with leaders such as ""More of the Redwood, not Deadwood"""	What types of policies did The Sun support?
The Sun switched support to the Labour party on 18 March 1997, six weeks before the General Election victory which saw the New Labour leader Tony Blair become Prime Minister with a large parliamentary majority, despite the paper having attacked Blair and New Labour up to a month earlier	Who did The Sun declare political endorsement of in 1997?
In exchange for Rupert Murdoch's support, Blair agreed not to join the European Exchange Rate Mechanism – which John Major had withdrawn the country from in September 1992 after barely two years	What did Blair agree to in order to get the support of Rupert Murdoch?
"In 2003 the paper was accused of racism by the Government over its criticisms of what it perceived as the ""open door"" policy on immigration"	What allegation did the government level against The Sun in 2003?
"For the 2005 general election, The Sun backed Blair and Labour for a third consecutive election win and vowed to give him ""one last chance"" to fulfil his promises, despite berating him for several weaknesses including a failure to control immigration"	Who did The Sun endorse in the 2005 general election?
"On 22 September 2003 the newspaper appeared to misjudge the public mood surrounding mental health, as well as its affection for former world heavyweight champion boxer Frank Bruno, who had been admitted to hospital, when the headline ""Bonkers Bruno Locked Up"" appeared on the front page of early editions"	What was the subject of the front page on 22 September 2003?
The Sun has been openly antagonistic towards other European nations, particularly the French and Germans	Which two nations has The Sun been very antagonistic towards?
"com, a British Muslim internet forum, had made a ""hate hit list"" of British Jews to be targeted by extremists over the Gaza War"	What type of forum was the subject of a January 2009 front page story in The Sun?
On 9 December 2010, The Sun published a front-page story claiming that terrorist group Al-Qaeda had threatened a terrorist attack on Granada Television in Manchester to disrupt the episode of the soap opera Coronation Street to be transmitted live that evening	What was the claimed target of a terrorist attack according to a late 2010 Sun front page story?
In January 2008 the Wapping presses printed The Sun for the last time and London printing was transferred to Waltham Cross in the Borough of Broxbourne in Hertfordshire, where News International had built what is claimed to be the largest printing centre in Europe with 12 presses	When was The Sun printed on the Wapping presses for the last time?
Politically, the paper's stance was less clear under Prime Minister Gordon Brown who succeeded Blair in June 2007	Who followed Tony Blair as Prime Minister?
""" In response James Murdoch and Rebekah Wade ""appeared unannounced and uninvited on the editorial floor"" of the Independent, and had an energetic conversation with its editor Simon Kelner"	Who showed up on the editorial floor of the Independent?
"On election day , The Sun urged its readers to vote for David Cameron's ""modern and positive"" Conservatives in order to save Britain from ""disaster"" which the paper thought the country would face if the Labour government was re-elected"	Who did The Sun advocate for the 2010 election?
On 28 January 2012, police arrested four current and former staff members of The Sun, as part of a probe in which journalists paid police officers for information; a police officer was also arrested in the probe	Why were former Sun staff members put in police custody in early 2012?
The main party leaders, David Cameron, Nick Clegg and Ed Miliband, were all depicted holding a copy of the special issue in publicity material	Who were the main leaders of the ruling party?
On 2 June 2013, The Sun on Sunday ran a front page story on singer-songwriter Tulisa Contostavlos	Who was the subject of an early June 2013 front page story?
"At her subsequent trial, the case against Tulisa collapsed at Southwark Crown Court in July 2014, with the judge commenting that there were ""strong grounds"" to believe that Mahmood had lied at a pre-trial hearing and tried to manipulate evidence against the co-defendant Tulisa"	How did the case against Tulisa fare?
All six were charged with conspiring to commit misconduct in a public office	What were Sun staff accused of in a 2014 trial?
On 6 February 2015, it was announced that Judge Richard Marks is to be replaced by Judge Charles Wide at the retrial	Who was appointed presiding judge over the retrial in 2015?
On 22 May 2015, Sun reporter Anthony France was found guilty of aiding and abetting misconduct in a public office between 2008 and 2011	Who was found guilty in 2015?
The BBC reported that France was the first journalist to face trial and be convicted under Operation Elveden since the Crown Prosecution Service had revised its guidance in April 2015 so that prosecutions would only be brought against journalists who had made payments to police officers over a period of time	Who was the first journalist convicted as a result of Operation Elveden since it had been revised?
In August 2013, The Irish Sun ended the practice of featuring topless models on Page 3	What did The Irish Sun stop doing in 2013?
"On 17 April 2015, The Sun's columnist Katie Hopkins called migrants to Britain ""cockroaches"" and ""feral humans"" and said they were ""spreading like the norovirus"""	Which Sun columnist made controversial remarks about migrants to Britain in April 2015?
"Hopkins' column also drew criticism on Twitter, including from Russell Brand, to whom Hopkins responded by accusing Brand's ""champagne socialist humanity"" of neglecting taxpayers"	On Twitter what famous person condemned Hopkins' remarks?
"On 9 March 2016, The Sun's front page proclaimed that Queen Elizabeth II was backing ""Brexit"", a common term for a British withdrawal from the European Union"	What is an often used term for British withdrawal from the European Union?
This use of pesticides is so common that the term pesticide is often treated as synonymous with plant protection product, although it is in fact a broader term, as pesticides are also used for non-agricultural purposes	What is the difference between a pesticide and a plant protection product?
Target pests can include insects, plant pathogens, weeds, mollusks, birds, mammals, fish, nematodes , and microbes that destroy property, cause nuisance, or spread disease, or are disease vectors	What are three pests pesticides target?
, herbicides, insecticides, fungicides, rodenticides, and pediculicides - see table), chemical structure (e	What is one way to group pesticides?
They operate by disrupting the sodium/potassium balance of the nerve fiber, forcing the nerve to transmit continuously	Organochlorine hydrocarbons effect what balance of the nerve fiber?
Pesticides can be classified based upon their biological mechanism function or application method	What is one way you could group pesticides?
For example, they are used to kill mosquitoes that can transmit potentially deadly diseases like West Nile virus, yellow fever, and malaria	Pesticides can be used to stop the spread of what dieseases?
DDT, sprayed on the walls of houses, is an organochlorine that has been used to fight malaria since the 1950s	What kind of pesticide is DDT?
1×109 lb) of pesticides, accounting for 22% of the world total, including 857 million pounds of conventional pesticides, which are used in the agricultural sector as well as the industrial, commercial, governmental and home & garden sectors	What amount of conventional pesticide use does the agricultural sector account for?
This means based that, on the amount of money spent per year on pesticides, $10 billion, there is an additional $40 billion savings in crop that would be lost due to damage by insects and weeds	What do monetary savings in crops from the use of pesticide amount to?
Pesticides may cause acute and delayed health effects in people who are exposed	Can pesticides have a serious effect on people?
The World Health Organization and the UN Environment Programme estimate that each year, 3 million workers in agriculture in the developing world experience severe poisoning from pesticides, about 18,000 of whom die	How many workers in agriculture die a year from severly poisining pesticides in developing countries?
Over 98% of sprayed insecticides and 95% of herbicides reach a destination other than their target species, including non-target species, air, water and soil	What pecentage of sprayed pesticides affect the wrong species?
Since chlorinated hydrocarbon pesticides dissolve in fats and are not excreted, organisms tend to retain them almost indefinitely	Why are hydrocarbon pesticides not excreted?
In order to reduce negative impacts, it is desirable that pesticides be degradable or at least quickly deactivated in the environment	What feature is wanted to assist with reducing negative impacts of pesticides?
Alternatives to pesticides are available and include methods of cultivation, use of biological pest controls , genetic engineering, and methods of interfering with insect breeding	What is one thing that can be used in place of pesticides?
"The term ""push-pull"" was established in 1987 as an approach for integrated pest management "	What does IPM stand for?
For example, Sweden has halved its use of pesticides with hardly any reduction in crops	How much was Sweden able to lower thier pesticide usage?
Pesticides can also be considered as either biodegradable pesticides, which will be broken down by microbes and other living beings into harmless compounds, or persistent pesticides, which may take months or years before they are broken down: it was the persistence of DDT, for example, which led to its accumulation in the food chain and its killing of birds of prey at the top of the food chain	What is one type of pesticide?
The following sulfonylureas have been commercialized for weed control: amidosulfuron, azimsulfuron, bensulfuron-methyl, chlorimuron-ethyl, ethoxysulfuron, flazasulfuron, flupyrsulfuron-methyl-sodium, halosulfuron-methyl, imazosulfuron, nicosulfuron, oxasulfuron, primisulfuron-methyl, pyrazosulfuron-ethyl, rimsulfuron, sulfometuron-methyl Sulfosulfuron, terbacil, bispyribac-sodium, cyclosulfamuron, and pyrithiobac-sodium	What are sulfonyureas commonly used for?
Though pesticide regulations differ from country to country, pesticides, and products on which they were used are traded across international borders	Is the trade of pesticides and pesticide treated goods limited to the United States?
Three other efforts to improve regulation of international pesticide trade are the United Nations London Guidelines for the Exchange of Information on Chemicals in International Trade and the United Nations Codex Alimentarius Commission	What country has attempted to better the controls of pesticide exchanges?
Pesticides safety education and pesticide applicator regulation are designed to protect the public from pesticide misuse, but do not eliminate all misuse	What is one measure taken to keep society safe from improper pesticide use?
Studies must be conducted to establish the conditions in which the material is safe to use and the effectiveness against the intended pest	What is a measure of pesticides determined in EPA studies?
Some pesticides are considered too hazardous for sale to the general public and are designated restricted use pesticides	What are pesticides that are thought to be extremely dangerous called?
Since before 2000 BC, humans have utilized pesticides to protect their crops	What is the earliest records of humans using pesticides?
The first legislation providing federal authority for regulating pesticides was enacted in 1910; however, decades later during the 1940s manufacturers began to produce large amounts of synthetic pesticides and their use became widespread	When were laws first created to regulate pesticides?
Somerset is a rural county of rolling hills such as the Blackdown Hills, Mendip Hills, Quantock Hills and Exmoor National Park, and large flat expanses of land including the Somerset Levels	What type of region is somerset
"The people of Somerset are mentioned in the Anglo-Saxon Chronicle's entry for AD 845, in the inflected form ""Sumursætum"", and the county is recorded in the entry for 1015 using the same name"	What are the people of somerset mentioned in 
After the Romans left, Britain was invaded by Anglo-Saxon peoples	Who invaded Britain when the Romans Left 
The Industrial Revolution in the Midlands and Northern England spelled the end for most of Somerset's cottage industries	What ended Somersets cottage industry 
Many Somerset soldiers died during the First World War, with the Somerset Light Infantry suffering nearly 5,000 casualties	How many Somerset soldiers were killed in WW1
A number of decoy towns were constructed in Somerset in World War II to protect Bristol and other towns, at night	Why were decoy towns used in WW2
The boundaries of Somerset are largely unaltered from medieval times	How long have the boundaries of somerset remained constant 
Somerton took over from Ilchester as the county town in the late thirteenth century, but it declined in importance and the status of county town transferred to Taunton about 1366	When did Somerton take over from Ilchester as the county town 
To the north-east of the Somerset Levels, the Mendip Hills are moderately high limestone hills	What area lies in the northeastern part of Somerset levels 
There is an extensive network of caves, including Wookey Hole, underground rivers, and gorges, including the Cheddar Gorge and Ebbor Gorge	What's the name of the cave system 
The Somerset Levels are a sparsely populated wetland area of central Somerset, between the Quantock and Mendip hills	What are the Somerset levels 
The main coastal towns are, from the west to the north-east, Minehead, Watchet, Burnham-on-Sea, Weston-super-Mare, Clevedon and Portishead	What are the main coastal towns 
Along with the rest of South West England, Somerset has a temperate climate which is generally wetter and milder than the rest of the country	What is the somerset climate like 
Bridgwater was developed during the Industrial Revolution as the area's leading port	What is the leading port of somerset 
A Royal Ordnance Factory, ROF Bridgwater was built at the start of the Second World War, between the villages of Puriton and Woolavington, to manufacture explosives	What type of factory was built in Somerset 
Agriculture and food and drink production continue to be major industries in the county, employing over 15,000 people	What area employs 15000 people in the couinty
The willow was harvested using a traditional method of pollarding, where a tree would be cut back to the main stem	What is pollarding 
Towns such as Castle Cary and Frome grew around the medieval weaving industry	What towns grew around the weaving Industry 
The county has a long tradition of supplying freestone and building stone	What type of stone was supplied in the county 
Tourism is a major industry, estimated in 2001 to support around 23,000 people	Tourism supports how many people in the County 
Hinkley Point C nuclear power station is a project to construct a 3,200 MW two reactor nuclear power station	What is Hinkley point C 
The percentage of the population who are economically active is higher than the regional and national average, and the unemployment rate is lower than the regional and national average	What percentage of the population is economically active 
Chinese is the largest ethnic group, while the black minority ethnic proportion of the total population is 2	The largest ethnic group in somerset county is 
The ceremonial county of Somerset consists of a two-tier non-metropolitan county, which is administered by Somerset County Council and five district councils, and two unitary authority areas 	How many tiers does somerset county consist of 
All of the ceremonial county of Somerset is covered by the Avon and Somerset Constabulary, a police force which also covers Bristol and South Gloucestershire	What police force covers the ceremonial county 
The Glastonbury Festival of Contemporary Performing Arts takes place most years in Pilton, near Shepton Mallet, attracting over 170,000 music and culture lovers from around the world to see world-famous entertainers	Where does the Glastonbury Music festival take place 
In Arthurian legend, Avalon became associated with Glastonbury Tor when monks at Glastonbury Abbey claimed to have discovered the bones of King Arthur and his queen	What does Artharian legend claim about Glastonbury
The county has several museums; those at Bath include the American Museum in Britain, the Museum of Bath Architecture, the Herschel Museum of Astronomy, the Jane Austen Centre, and the Roman Baths	What some of the Museums in Bath
Somerset has 11,500 listed buildings, 523 scheduled monuments, 192 conservation areas, 41 parks and gardens including those at Barrington Court, Holnicote Estate, Prior Park Landscape Garden and Tintinhull Garden, 36 English Heritage sites and 19 National Trust sites, including Clevedon Court, Fyne Court, Montacute House and Tyntesfield as well as Stembridge Tower Mill, the last remaining thatched windmill in England	How many listed buildings in Somerset 
Bath Rugby play at the Recreation Ground in Bath, and the Somerset County Cricket Club are based at the County Ground in Taunton	Where does the rugby team play 
The Somerset Coal Canal was built in the early 19th century to reduce the cost of transportation of coal and other heavy produce	Why was the Somerset county Canal built 
The usefulness of the canals was short-lived, though some have now been restored for recreation	How long were canals used 
Until the 1960s the piers at Weston-super-Mare, Clevedon, Portishead and Minehead were served by the paddle steamers of P and A Campbell who ran regular services to Barry and Cardiff as well as Ilfracombe and Lundy Island	What did paddle streamers serve until the 1960's 
State schools in Somerset are provided by three local education authorities: Bath and North East Somerset, North Somerset, and the larger Somerset County Council	What are the state schools in somerset 
Several schools can trace their origins back many years, such as The Blue School in Wells and Richard Huish College in Taunton	What schools can trace their origins back 
King's School, Bruton, was founded in 1519 and received royal foundation status around 30 years later in the reign of Edward VI	What school in Bruton was given royal foundation status 
The University of Bath and Bath Spa University are higher education establishments in the north-east of the county	What University are in Bath 
Founded in 1701 in Saybrook Colony as the Collegiate School, the University is the third-oldest institution of higher education in the United States	When was the Collegiate School of Saybrook Colony founded?
Yale is organized into fourteen constituent schools: the original undergraduate college, the Yale Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, and twelve professional schools	How many schools is Yale composed of?
"Yale traces its beginnings to ""An Act for Liberty to Erect a Collegiate School,"" passed by the General Court of the Colony of Connecticut on October 9, 1701, while meeting in New Haven"	"When was ""An Act for Liberty to Erect a Collegiate School"" approved?"
In 1718, at the behest of either Rector Samuel Andrew or the colony's Governor Gurdon Saltonstall, Cotton Mather contacted a successful businessman named Elihu Yale, who lived in Wales but had been born in Boston and whose father, David, had been one of the original settlers in New Haven, to ask him for financial help in constructing a new building for the college	Where did Elihu Yale grow up?
The Reverend Ezra Stiles, president of the College from 1778 to 1795, brought with him his interest in the Hebrew language as a vehicle for studying ancient Biblical texts in their original language , requiring all freshmen to study Hebrew and is responsible for the Hebrew phrase אורים ותמים on the Yale seal	When was Ezra Stiles president of Yale?
William Graham Sumner, professor from 1872 to 1909, taught in the emerging disciplines of economics and sociology to overflowing classrooms	When did William Graham Sumner teach?
"The Revolutionary War soldier Nathan Hale was the prototype of the Yale ideal in the early 19th century: a manly yet aristocratic scholar, equally well-versed in knowledge and sports, and a patriot who ""regretted"" that he ""had but one life to lose"" for his country"	What was Nathan Hale famous for?
Between 1892, when Harvard and Yale met in one of the first intercollegiate debates, and 1909, the year of the first Triangular Debate of Harvard, Yale, and Princeton, the rhetoric, symbolism, and metaphors used in athletics were used to frame these early debates	In what year was the first debate between Harvard, Yale, and Princeton?
There was a mood of alarm and mistrust, and, while the crisis was developing, the presidents of Harvard, Yale, and Princeton developed a project to reform the sport and forestall possible radical changes forced by government upon the sport	Who attempted to enact measures of football reform?
Yale expanded gradually, establishing the Yale School of Medicine , Yale Divinity School , Yale Law School , Yale Graduate School of Arts and Sciences , the Sheffield Scientific School , and the Yale School of Fine Arts 	When was the Yale School of Medicine established?
Noah Porter, moral philosopher, was president from 1871 to 1886	When was Noah Porter president of Yale?
Between 1925 and 1940, philanthropic foundations, especially ones connected with the Rockefellers, contributed about $7 million to support the Yale Institute of Human Relations and the affiliated Yerkes Laboratories of Primate Biology	How much did philanthropic foundations donate between 1925 and 1940?
Harrison's group is shown to have been a classic research school; Pickford's and Hutchinson's were not	Which group of researchers provided a standard research school environment?
Milton Winternitz led the Yale Medical School as its dean from 1920 to 1935	Who was dean of Yale Medical School from 1920 to 1935?
Norman Holmes Pearson, who worked for the Office of Strategic Studies in London during World War II, returned to Yale and headed the new American studies program, in which scholarship quickly became an instrument of promoting liberty	Who was the first professor for the American studies program?
In 1966, Yale began discussions with its sister school Vassar College about merging to foster coeducation at the undergraduate level	What sister school of Yale's considered merger in 1966?
In March 2011 a Title IX complaint was filed against Yale by students and recent graduates, including editors of Yale's feminist magazine Broad Recognition, alleging that the university had a hostile sexual climate	When was a Title IX complaint filed against Yale?
Yale has a complicated relationship with its home city; for example, thousands of students volunteer every year in a myriad of community organizations, but city officials, who decry Yale's exemption from local property taxes, have long pressed the university to do more to help	Why do New Haven city officials dislike Yale?
""" Yale alumni were represented on the Democratic or Republican ticket in every U"	How many times were Yale alumni on a presidential ticket between 1972 and 2004
"Yale President Richard Levin attributes the run to Yale’s focus on creating ""a laboratory for future leaders,"" an institutional priority that began during the tenure of Yale Presidents Alfred Whitney Griswold and Kingman Brewster"	Why did President Levin believe there were so many Yale alumni presidential candidates?
"Bush derided Michael Dukakis for having ""foreign-policy views born in Harvard Yard's boutique"""	In the 1988 election, where did George H. W. Bush say Michael Dukakis's foreign policy was born?
In 2009, former British Prime Minister Tony Blair picked Yale as one location – the others are Britain's Durham University and Universiti Teknologi Mara – for the Tony Blair Faith Foundation's United States Faith and Globalization Initiative	Besides Yale, what other two locations were chosen by Tony Blair for the Tony Blair Faith Foundation's United States Faith and Globalization Initiative?
In 1977 Hanna Holborn Gray was appointed acting President of Yale from this position, and went on to become President of the University of Chicago, the first woman to be full president of a major university	Who was appointed acting President of Yale in 1977?
In addition to these unions, officers of the Yale University Police Department are members of the Yale Police Benevolent Association, which affiliated in 2005 with the Connecticut Organization for Public Safety Employees	What union are the members of the Yale University Police Department a part of?
There have been at least eight strikes since 1968, and The New York Times wrote that Yale has a reputation as having the worst record of labor tension of any university in the U	How many strikes has Yale had since 1968?
In western New Haven, the university holds 500 acres (2	Where does Yale own 500 acres of athletic facilities?
Yale also owns and has restored many noteworthy 19th-century mansions along Hillhouse Avenue, which was considered the most beautiful street in America by Charles Dickens when he visited the United States in the 1840s	Who called Hillhouse Avenue the most beautiful street in America in the 1840's?
Harkness Stone sculpture built into the walls of the buildings portray contemporary college personalities such as a writer, an athlete, a tea-drinking socialite, and a student who has fallen asleep while reading	What do the stone statues on Yale's campus depict?
Anthony Hall , the Mason, Sloane and Osborn laboratories, dormitories for the Sheffield Scientific School and elements of Silliman College, the largest residential college	What is the largest residential college?
Alumnus Eero Saarinen, Finnish-American architect of such notable structures as the Gateway Arch in St	Who created the Gateway Arch in St. Louis?
Yale's Office of Sustainability develops and implements sustainability practices at Yale	Who creates sustainability practices at Yale?
Yale's secret society buildings were built both to be private yet unmistakable	What is another term for some of Yale's secret society buildings?
The first campus police force was founded at Yale in 1894, when the university contracted city police officers to exclusively cover the campus	When were the first campus police formed at Yale?
Through its program of need-based financial aid, Yale commits to meet the full demonstrated financial need of all applicants	What kind of system is Yale's financial aid?
The Harvey Cushing/John Hay Whitney Medical Library includes important historical medical texts, including an impressive collection of rare books, as well as historical medical instruments	Where would one find a collection of historical medical equipment?
The Yale University Art Gallery, the country's first university-affiliated art museum, contains more than 180,000 works, including Old Masters and important collections of modern art, in the Swartout and Kahn buildings	What is the name of the country's first university partnered art museum?
Jacques Derrida, the father of deconstruction, taught at the Department of Comparative Literature from the late seventies to mid-1980s	Who is known as the father of deconstruction?
Yale's residential college system was established in 1933 by Edward S	When was Yale's residential college system established?
While Harkness' original colleges were Georgian Revival or Collegiate Gothic in style, two colleges constructed in the 1960s, Morse and Ezra Stiles Colleges, have modernist designs	In what architectural styles were Harkness' original colleges?
Calhoun, a slave-owner and strong slavery supporter in the nineteenth century	Why did people dislike the college being named after John C. Calhoun?
Established in 1872, The Yale Record is the world's oldest humor magazine	What is the name of the world's oldest humor magazine?
"Yale seniors at graduation smash clay pipes underfoot to symbolize passage from their ""bright college years,"" though in recent history the pipes have been replaced with ""bubble pipes"""	What do seniors crush to celebrate graduation?
Yale has numerous athletic facilities, including the Yale Bowl , located at The Walter Camp Field athletic complex, and the Payne Whitney Gymnasium, the second-largest indoor athletic complex in the world	What is the name of the United States' first bowl stadium?
Johnson, a 1954 graduate of Yale College, pledged a $250 million gift in 2013 to support of the construction of two new residential colleges	How much did Charles B. Johnson pledge to Yale in 2013?
Bush; royals Crown Princess Victoria Bernadotte, Prince Rostislav Romanov and Prince Akiiki Hosea Nyabongo; heads of state, including Italian prime minister Mario Monti, Turkish prime minister Tansu Çiller, Mexican president Ernesto Zedillo, German president Karl Carstens, and Philippines president José Paciano Laurel; U	What royalty has attended Yale?
For example, Owen Johnson's novel, Stover at Yale, follows the college career of Dink Stover and Frank Merriwell, the model for all later juvenile sports fiction, plays football, baseball, crew, and track at Yale while solving mysteries and righting wrongs	Who were the main characters in Stover at Yale?
To add to the many problems of the period, the unity of the Catholic Church was shattered by the Western Schism	What shattered the unity of the Catholic Church?
Following a renewed interest in ancient Greek and Roman texts that took root in the High Middle Ages, the Italian Renaissance began	An interest in texts from which two ancient civilizations sparked the Italian Renaissance?
Combined with this influx of classical ideas was the invention of printing which facilitated dissemination of the printed word and democratized learning	Which invention resulted in more widespread use of the printed word?
"The term ""Late Middle Ages"" refers to one of the three periods of the Middle Ages, along with the Early Middle Ages and the High Middle Ages"	Along with the Late Middle Ages, what are the other two period of the Middle Ages?
As economic and demographic methods were applied to the study of history, the trend was increasingly to see the late Middle Ages as a period of recession and crisis	What methods, applied to the study of history, led to the perception of the Middle Ages as a time of recession and crisis?
The period from the early 14th century up until – and sometimes including – the 16th century, is rather seen as characterised by other trends: demographic and economic decline followed by recovery, the end of western religious unity and the subsequent emergence of the nation state, and the expansion of European influence onto the rest of the world	What geopolitical entity emerged from the Late Middle Ages?
After the failed union of Sweden and Norway of 1319–1365, the pan-Scandinavian Kalmar Union was instituted in 1397	When was the Kalmar Union formed?
The Holy Roman Empire passed to the Habsburgs in 1438, where it remained until its dissolution in 1806	In what year was the Holy Roman Empire dissolved?
Louis did not leave a son as heir after his death in 1382	In what year did Louis die?
Belgrade, an Hungarian domain at the time, was the last large Balkan city to fall under Ottoman rule, in 1521	In what year did Belgrade fall to the Ottomans?
Avignon was the seat of the papacy from 1309 to 1376	What city was the seat of the papacy for most of the 14th century?
The 1469 marriage of Isabella I of Castile and Ferdinand II of Aragon and the 1479 death of John II of Aragon led to the creation of modern-day Spain	In what year were Isabel I and Ferdinand II married?
Around 1300–1350 the Medieval Warm Period gave way to the Little Ice Age	Which climactic epoch followed the Medieval Warm Period?
These efforts resulted in nothing more than fostering resentment among the peasantry, leading to rebellions such as the French Jacquerie in 1358 and the English Peasants' Revolt in 1381	When did the French Jacquerie take place?
By 1500, Venice, Milan, Naples, Paris and Constantinople each probably had more than 100,000 inhabitants	Which European cities likely had populations greater than 100,000 in 1500?
It was in Valois France, under the heavy demands of the Hundred Years' War, that the armed forces gradually assumed a permanent nature	Which conflict in France resulted in the establishment of permanent armies?
George, founded by Charles I of Hungary in 1325, while the best known was probably the English Order of the Garter, founded by Edward III in 1348	What was the chivalric order established by Edward III in 1348?
When the Pope returned to Rome in 1377, this led to the election of different popes in Avignon and Rome, resulting in the Papal Schism 	What was the result of the election of two popes at the same time?
The first of these came from Oxford professor John Wycliffe in England	Which Oxford professor believed that the Bible should be the sole authority in religious questions?
When he was burned as a heretic in 1415, it caused a popular uprising in the Czech lands	In what year was Jan Hus burned at the stake?
Martin Luther, a German monk, started the German Reformation by posting 95 theses on the castle church of Wittenberg on October 31, 1517	Into what language did Martin Luther translate the Bible?
Among the innovations of the period were new forms of partnership and the issuing of insurance, both of which contributed to reducing the risk of commercial ventures; the bill of exchange and other forms of credit that circumvented the canonical laws for gentiles against usury, and eliminated the dangers of carrying bullion; and new forms of accounting, in particular double-entry bookkeeping, which allowed for better oversight and accuracy	What new form of accounting was created during the late 13th and early 14th centuries?
Towns saw the growing power of guilds, while on a national level special companies would be granted monopolies on particular trades, like the English wool Staple	What privilege was granted to companies on a national level?
Though there is no doubt that the demographic crisis of the 14th century caused a dramatic fall in production and commerce in absolute terms, there has been a vigorous historical debate over whether the decline was greater than the fall in population	What caused the decrease in commerce and production in the 14th century?
The predominant school of thought in the 13th century was the Thomistic reconciliation of the teachings of Aristotle with Christian theology	Which philosophy attempted to reconcile Aristotelian teachings and Christian theology in the 13th century?
Buridan developed the theory of impetus as the cause of the motion of projectiles, which was an important step towards the modern concept of inertia	What did Jean Buridan create to explain the motion of projectiles?
Gutenberg's movable type printing press made possible not only the Reformation, but also a dissemination of knowledge that would lead to a gradually more egalitarian society	Who invented the movable printing press?
Greater realism was also achieved through the scientific study of anatomy, championed by artists like Donatello	Who championed the scientific study of anatomy for the benefit of art?
The two cultures influenced each other and learned from each other, but painting in the Netherlands remained more focused on textures and surfaces than the idealized compositions of Italy	What was the focus of paintings in Italy?
Dante Alighieri's Divine Comedy, written in the early 14th century, merged a medieval world view with classical ideals	Who wrote the Divine Comedy?
From the early 13th century, the dominant sacred musical form had been the motet; a composition with text in several parts	What was the dominant sacred musical form in the early 13th century?
Prominent reformer of Orthodox Church music from the first half of 14th century was John Kukuzelis; he also introduced a system of notation widely used in the Balkans in the following centuries	Who introduced a system of musical notation used in the Balkans in the 14th century?
However, the most famous morality play and perhaps best known medieval drama is Everyman	What is the most famous morality play from the medieval period?
Richard III and Henry VII both maintained small companies of professional actors	Which Late Middle Age English kings kept their own troupes of professional actors?
The end of medieval drama came about due to a number of factors, including the weakening power of the Catholic Church, the Protestant Reformation and the banning of religious plays in many countries	What was banned that led to the demise of medieval drama?
Combined with the influx of classical ideas was the invention of printing which facilitated dissemination of the printed word and democratized learning	Along with the invention of printing, and the associated dissemination of the printed word, what other factor is believed to have led to the Protestant Reformation?
At the end of the 15th century the Ottoman Empire advanced all over Southeastern Europe, eventually conquering the Byzantine Empire and extending control over the Balkan states	Which empire completed its conquest of the Byzantines at the end of the 15th century?
This battle became a real Crusade against the Muslims, as the peasants were motivated by the Franciscan monk Saint John of Capistrano, who came from Italy predicating Holy War	Which Franciscan monk motivated the peasants to fight against Muslims at the Siege of Belgrade?
At the Battle of Mohács, the forces of the Ottoman Empire annihilated the Hungarian army and Louis II of Hungary drowned in the Csele Creek while trying to escape	How did Louis II of Hungary die?
Some historians, particularly in Italy, prefer not to speak of the late Middle Ages at all, but rather see the high period of the Middle Ages transitioning to the Renaissance and the modern era	Historians from what country in particular do not refer to the Late Middle Ages?
Ann Arbor was founded in 1824, named for wives of the village's founders and the stands of Bur Oak trees	When was Ann Arbor founded?
Ann Arbor was founded in 1824 by land speculators John Allen and Elisha Walker Rumsey	Who founded Ann Arbor?
Since the university's establishment in the city in 1837, the histories of the University of Michigan and Ann Arbor have been closely linked	Ann Arbor has been linked with which university?
These include Word of God , a charismatic inter-denominational movement; and the Thomas More Law Center , a religious-conservative advocacy group	When was the Thomas More Law center established?
And in the year 2010, Forbes listed Ann Arbor as one of the most liveable cities in the United States of America	Which magazine listed Ann Arbor as one of the most liveable cities in the USA?
25 km2) is water, much of which is part of the Huron River	On which river is the city of Ann Arbor situated?
"Ann Arbor's ""Tree Town"" nickname stems from the dense forestation of its parks and residential areas"	What is the city of Ann arbor nicknamed as?
Downtown contains a mix of 19th- and early-20th-century structures and modern-style buildings, as well as a farmers' market in the Kerrytown district	Which district has the farmers market in the city?
Among these homes are a number of kit houses built in the early 20th century	Which century does the Kit houses belong to?
There are four distinct seasons: winters are cold with moderate to heavy snowfall, while summers are very warm and humid, and spring and autumn are short but mild	How many seasons are experienced in the city of Ann Arbor?
0/km²), making it less densely populated than inner-ring Detroit suburbs like Oak Park and Ferndale , but more densely populated than outer-ring suburbs like Livonia or Troy	Which parts of the city of Detroit are densely populated?
The median age was 28 years	What is the median age for the city of Ann Arbor?
Automobile manufacturers, such as General Motors and Visteon, also employ residents	Name some automobile manufacturers in the city of Ann Arbor
The Argus camera company, originally a subsidiary of International Radio, manufactured cameras in Ann Arbor from 1936 to the 1960s	Which company manufactured cameras in Ann Arbor from 1936 to 1960's?
The city is also home to the headquarters of Google's AdWords program—the company's primary revenue stream	Which company's adwords program is headquartered at Ann Arbor?
Pfizer, once the city's second largest employer, operated a large pharmaceutical research facility on the northeast side of Ann Arbor	Who is the city's 2nd largest employer?
Borders Books, started in Ann Arbor, was opened by brothers Tom and Louis Borders in 1971 with a stock of used books	When did the Borders Books open up in Ann Arbor?
Founded in 1879, the University Musical Society is an independent performing arts organization that presents over 60 events each year, bringing international artists in music, dance, and theater	When was the University Musical Society founded?
The Ann Arbor Hands-On Museum is located in a renovated and expanded historic downtown fire station	Which museum is located at Ann Arbors historic downtown fire station?
One such event is the Ann Arbor Art Fairs, a set of four concurrent juried fairs held on downtown streets	What type of Art fairs are held at Ann Arbor?
Ann Arbor has a long history of openness to marijuana, given Ann Arbor's decriminalization of cannabis, the large number of medical marijuana dispensaries in the city , the large number of pro-marijuana residents, and the annual Hash Bash: an event that is held on the first Saturday of April	What medical dispensarys are there in Ann Arbor?
Ann Arbor is a major scene of college sports, most notably at the University of Michigan, a member of the Big Ten Conference	Who is the member of the Big Ten Conference in college sports in the city?
"A person from Ann Arbor is called an ""Ann Arborite"", and many long-time residents call themselves ""townies"""	What is a person from Ann Arbor called?
Ann Arbor has a council-manager form of government	What form of government does Ann Arbor have?
Ann Arbor is part of Michigan's 12th congressional district, represented in Congress by Representative Debbie Dingell, a Democrat	Who represents the congress in Ann Arbor?
Voters approved charter amendments that have lessened the penalties for possession of marijuana , and that aim to protect access to abortion in the city should it ever become illegal in the State of Michigan 	Voters in the city approve which kind of amendment?
Other local colleges and universities include Concordia University Ann Arbor, a Lutheran liberal-arts institution; a campus of the University of Phoenix; and Cleary University, a private business school	Name a private business school located in Ann arbor.
AAPS has one of the country's leading music programs	Ann Arbor has one of the leading programs in what subject?
The Ann Arbor News, owned by the Michigan-based Booth Newspapers chain, is the major daily newspaper serving Ann Arbor and the rest of Washtenaw County	Who owns Ann Arbor news?
The Ann Arbor Business Review covers local business in the area	What magazine covers Ann Arbor's local businesses?
Four major AM radio stations based in or near Ann Arbor are WAAM 1600, a conservative news and talk station; WLBY 1290, a business news and talk station; WDEO 990, Catholic radio; and WTKA 1050, which is primarily a sports station	What is the name of the conservative AM radio channel in Ann arbor?
WPXD channel 31, an affiliate of the ION Television network, is licensed to the city	WPXD channel 31 is an affliate of which TV network?
The University of Michigan Medical Center, the only teaching hospital in the city, took the number 1 slot in U	What hospital was rated number 1 in Michigan in 2014?
Cable TV service is primarily provided by Comcast	What is the name of the city owned cable company?
Highway 23 , which primarily runs along the eastern edge of Ann Arbor; and M-14, which runs along the northern edge of the city	US Highway 32 runs along what edge of Ann Arbor?
Gothic architecture is a style of architecture that flourished during the high and late medieval period	What is one time period in which Gothic architecture flourished?
It is in the great churches and cathedrals and in a number of civic buildings that the Gothic style was expressed most powerfully, its characteristics lending themselves to appeals to the emotions, whether springing from faith or from civic pride	What is an example of where the Gothic style is expressed most strongly?
"The term ""Gothic architecture"" originated as a pejorative description"	"What type of description did the term ""Gothic architecture"" originate as?"
The greatest number of surviving Gothic buildings are churches	What type of structures remaining today have the largest amount of examples of the Gothic style?
At the end of the 12th century, Europe was divided into a multitude of city states and kingdoms	At the end of what century was Europe separated into several city states and kingdoms?
Throughout Europe at this time there was a rapid growth in trade and an associated growth in towns	Europe experienced a rapid growth in what at this time?
The Catholic Church prevailed across Europe at this time, influencing not only faith but also wealth and power	What church was widespread across Europe at this time?
From the 10th to the 13th century, Romanesque architecture had become a pan-European style and manner of construction, affecting buildings in countries as far apart as Ireland, Croatia, Sweden and Sicily	During what time period did Romanesque architecture become a pan-European style of construction?
In Northern Germany, Netherlands, northern Poland, Denmark, and the Baltic countries local building stone was unavailable but there was a strong tradition of building in brick	Northern Germany, Netherlands, northern Poland, Denmark, and the Baltic countries used what building material in place of local stone?
By the 12th century, Romanesque architecture , was established throughout Europe and provided the basic architectural forms and units that were to remain in evolution throughout the Medieval period	What is Romanesque architecture known as in England?
It was principally the widespread introduction of a single feature, the pointed arch, which was to bring about the change that separates Gothic from Romanesque	What was the most important single design aspect that separated the Gothic style from the Romanesque? 
The pointed arch, one of the defining attributes of Gothic, was earlier incorporated into Islamic architecture following the Islamic conquests of Roman Syria and the Sassanid Empire in the Seventh Century	What is one defining characteristic of the Gothic architectural style?
Increasing military and cultural contacts with the Muslim world, including the Norman conquest of Islamic Sicily in 1090, the Crusades, beginning 1096, and the Islamic presence in Spain, may have influenced Medieval Europe's adoption of the pointed arch, although this hypothesis remains controversial	What could have affected Medieval Europe's embracing of the pointed arch?
The characteristic forms that were to define Gothic architecture grew out of Romanesque architecture and developed at several different geographic locations, as the result of different influences and structural requirements	The distinctive forms that describe Gothic architecture developed out of which style?
The Basilica of Saint Denis is generally cited as the first truly Gothic building, however the distinction is best reserved for the choir, of which the ambulatory remains intact	What is considered the first truly Gothic building?
At the Abbey Saint-Denis, Noyon Cathedral, Notre Dame de Paris and at the eastern end of Canterbury Cathedral in England, simple cylindrical columns predominate over the Gothic forms of clustered columns and shafted piers	What is one cathedral in which simple cylindrical columns stand out more than the Gothic features?
Suger, friend and confidant of the French Kings, Louis VI and Louis VII, decided in about 1137, to rebuild the great Church of Saint-Denis, attached to an abbey which was also a royal residence	Who chose to rebuild the great Church of Saint-Denis in about 1137?
At the completion of the west front in 1140, Abbot Suger moved on to the reconstruction of the eastern end, leaving the Carolingian nave in use	When was the west front of Saint Denis completed?
While many secular buildings exist from the Late Middle Ages, it is in the buildings of cathedrals and great churches that Gothic architecture displays its pertinent structures and characteristics to the fullest advantage	What type of buildings most prominently display the design aspects of the Gothic architectural style?
The eastern arm shows considerable diversity	In England, which arm would generally show two distinct sections, choir and presbytery?
Contrary to the diffusionist theory, it appears that there was simultaneously a structural evolution towards the pointed arch, for the purpose of vaulting spaces of irregular plan, or to bring transverse vaults to the same height as diagonal vaults	The use of the pointed arch for bringing transverse vaults to the same height diagonal ones, is in disagreement with what theory?
The Gothic vault, unlike the semi-circular vault of Roman and Romanesque buildings, can be used to roof rectangular and irregularly shaped plans such as trapezoids	Which type of vault can be used for rectangular and trapezoidal shaped roofs?
Externally, towers and spires are characteristic of Gothic churches both great and small, the number and positioning being one of the greatest variables in Gothic architecture	What is one feature of both large and small Gothic churches?
On the exterior, the verticality is emphasised in a major way by the towers and spires and in a lesser way by strongly projecting vertical buttresses, by narrow half-columns called attached shafts which often pass through several storeys of the building, by long narrow windows, vertical mouldings around doors and figurative sculpture which emphasises the vertical and is often attenuated	What enhances the vertical look of the exterior of Gothic construction? 
On the interior of the building attached shafts often sweep unbroken from floor to ceiling and meet the ribs of the vault, like a tall tree spreading into branches	What is often found sweeping unbroken from floor to ceiling on the interior of Gothic buildings?
Expansive interior light has been a feature of Gothic cathedrals since the first structure was opened	What sort of light has always been characteristic of Gothic cathedrals?
Above the main portal there is generally a large window, like that at York Minster, or a group of windows such as those at Ripon Cathedral	What size of window is found above the main portal at York Minster?
The distinctive characteristic of French cathedrals, and those in Germany and Belgium that were strongly influenced by them, is their height and their impression of verticality	What is the distinguiushing visual design feature of French cathedrals?
The distinctive characteristic of English cathedrals is their extreme length, and their internal emphasis upon the horizontal, which may be emphasised visually as much or more than the vertical lines	What is the unique design feature of English cathedrals?
Romanesque architecture in Germany, Poland, the Czech Lands and Austria is characterised by its massive and modular nature	In Germany, Poland and Austria Romanesque architecture is defined by its massive size and what other design element?
The distinctive characteristic of Gothic cathedrals of the Iberian Peninsula is their spatial complexity, with many areas of different shapes leading from each other	What is the distinctive design element of Gothic cathedrals of the Iberian Peninsula? 
The distinctive characteristic of Italian Gothic is the use of polychrome decoration, both externally as marble veneer on the brick façade and also internally where the arches are often made of alternating black and white segments, and where the columns may be painted red, the walls decorated with frescoes and the apse with mosaic	What is the unique characteristic of Italian Gothic design?
The Palais des Papes in Avignon is the best complete large royal palace, alongside the Royal palace of Olite, built during the 13th and 14th centuries for the kings of Navarre	Who was the Royal palace of Olite built for?
The Gdańsk, Wrocław and Stralsund town halls are remarkable examples of northern Brick Gothic built in the late 14th centuries	What is an example of secular Northern Brick Gothic architecture from the 14th century?
By the late Middle Ages university towns had grown in wealth and importance as well, and this was reflected in the buildings of some of Europe's ancient universities	In what era had university towns grown in wealth and importance?
Other cities with a concentration of secular Gothic include Bruges and Siena	What is one city with an accumulation of secular Gothic structures? 
In 1663 at the Archbishop of Canterbury's residence, Lambeth Palace, a Gothic hammerbeam roof was built to replace that destroyed when the building was sacked during the English Civil War	What is the name of the Archbishop of Canterbury's residence?
In England, partly in response to a philosophy propounded by the Oxford Movement and others associated with the emerging revival of 'high church' or Anglo-Catholic ideas during the second quarter of the 19th century, neo-Gothic began to become promoted by influential establishment figures as the preferred style for ecclesiastical, civic and institutional architecture	When was neo-Gothic popularized by influential figures?
The Houses of Parliament in London by Sir Charles Barry with interiors by a major exponent of the early Gothic Revival, Augustus Welby Pugin, is an example of the Gothic revival style from its earlier period in the second quarter of the 19th century	Who was the exterior architect of the Houses of Parliament?
In France, simultaneously, the towering figure of the Gothic Revival was Eugène Viollet-le-Duc, who outdid historical Gothic constructions to create a Gothic as it ought to have been, notably at the fortified city of Carcassonne in the south of France and in some richly fortified keeps for industrial magnates	Who was the main figure of the Gothic Revival in France?
A primary influence that led to Cubism was the representation of three-dimensional form in the late works of Paul Cézanne	Which person was the most influential in beginning the movement with is three dimensional forms?
In France, offshoots of Cubism developed, including Orphism, Abstract art and later Purism	What were the three offshoots of Cubism formed in France?
Cubism began between 1907 and 1911	Between what years did cubism begin? 
In one scheme, the first phase of Cubism, known as Analytic Cubism, a phrase coined by Juan Gris a posteriori, was both radical and influential as a short but highly significant art movement between 1910 and 1912 in France	What was the first phase of Cubism known as? 
The assertion that the Cubist depiction of space, mass, time, and volume supports the flatness of the canvas was made by Daniel-Henry Kahnweiler as early as 1920, but it was subject to criticism in the 1950s and 1960s, especially by Clement Greenberg	Who asserted that the flat canvas supported Cubism? 
Artists such as Paul Gauguin, Henri Matisse, and Pablo Picasso were intrigued and inspired by the stark power and simplicity of styles of those foreign cultures	Which artists in the early 19th and 20th century inspired by the newly discovered African, Native American, Micro and Polynesian art?
"The art historian Douglas Cooper states that Paul Gauguin and Paul Cézanne ""were particularly influential to the formation of Cubism and especially important to the paintings of Picasso during 1906 and 1907"""	Which two artists did Douglass Cooper say were very important to the forming of Cubism?
"The most serious objection to regarding the Demoiselles as the origin of Cubism, with its evident influence of primitive art, is that ""such deductions are unhistorical"", wrote the art historian Daniel Robbins"	What did Daniel Robbins say about Demoiselles being the beginning of Cubism?
In addition to Seurat, the roots of cubism are to be found in the two distinct tendencies of Cézanne's later work: first his breaking of the painted surface into small multifaceted areas of paint, thereby emphasizing the plural viewpoint given by binocular vision, and second his interest in the simplification of natural forms into cylinders, spheres, and cones	Besides Seurat where else are the beginnigs of Cubism found?
The historical study of Cubism began in the late 1920s, drawing at first from sources of limited data, namely the opinions of Guillaume Apollinaire	When did the historical study of Cubism begin?
"The traditional interpretation of ""Cubism"", formulated post facto as a means of understanding the works of Braque and Picasso, has affected our appreciation of other twentieth-century artists"	Understanding who's work was the tradition meaning of Cubism formed on?
The term Cubism did not come into general usage until 1911, mainly with reference to Metzinger, Gleizes, Delaunay, and Léger	What year did the term Cubism become used more?
Picasso worked in Montmartre until 1912, while Braque and Gris remained there until after the First World War	Where did Picassos work until 1912? 
Already in 1910 a group began to form which included Metzinger, Gleizes, Delaunay and Léger	Which four people usually met at Fauconnier's studio in 1910?
The exhibition was reviewed in the October 8, 1911 issue of The New York Times	In what year did the New York Times review the Salon d'Automne?
2, which itself caused a scandal, even amongst the Cubists	 Was Duchamp's work considered controversial when displayed in 1912?
The indignation of the politician Jean Pierre Philippe Lampué made the front page of Le Journal, 5 October 1912	Which politician made the front page of Le Journa in 1912 for his indignation? 
"It was against this background of public anger that Jean Metzinger and Albert Gleizes wrote Du ""Cubisme"" "	"What against did Metzinger and Gleizes write Du ""Cubsime""? "
Kupka’s two entries at the 1912 Salon d'Automne, Amorpha-Fugue à deux couleurs and Amorpha chromatique chaude, were highly abstract and metaphysical in orientation	What were Kupka's two entries at the Salon d'Automne? 
Also labeled an Orphist by Apollinaire, Marcel Duchamp was responsible for another extreme development inspired by Cubism	By whom was Marcel Duchamp labeled an Orphanist? 
Over 200 works were displayed, and the fact that many of the artists showed artworks representative of their development from 1909 to 1912 gave the exhibition the allure of a Cubist retrospective	How many works displayed at The Salon de la Section d'Or at the Galerie La Boétie in Paris, October 1912?
"The fact that the 1912 exhibition had been curated to show the successive stages through which Cubism had transited, and that Du ""Cubisme"" had been published for the occasion, indicates the artists' intention of making their work comprehensible to a wide audience "	What did the 1912 exhiibtion of Cubism show?
"""It is by no means clear, in any case,"" wrote Christopher Green, ""to what extent these other Cubists depended on Picasso and Braque for their development of such techniques as faceting, 'passage' and multiple perspective; they could well have arrived at such practices with little knowledge of 'true' Cubism in its early stages, guided above all by their own understanding of Cézanne"	What did Christopher Green say of the difference between traditional cubist and Salon Cubists?
"In Du ""Cubisme"" Metzinger and Gleizes explicitly related the sense of time to multiple perspective, giving symbolic expression to the notion of ‘duration’ proposed by the philosopher Henri Bergson according to which life is subjectively experienced as a continuum, with the past flowing into the present and the present merging into the future"	In Du Cubisme who so Metzinger and Gleizes relate the sense of time to? 
This technique of representing simultaneity, multiple viewpoints is pushed to a high degree of complexity in Gleizes' monumental Le Dépiquage des Moissons , exhibited at the 1912 Salon de la Section d'Or, Le Fauconnier’s Abundance shown at the Indépendants of 1911, and Delaunay's City of Paris, shown at the Indépendants in 1912	What did the technique in Gliezes' piece Le Depiquage represent?
Cubism and modern European art was introduced into the United States at the now legendary 1913 Armory Show in New York City, which then traveled to Chicago and Boston	What was the name of the show that introduced Cubism to the USA?
During the autumn of 1909 Picasso sculpted Head of a Woman with positive features depicted by negative space and vice versa	What was the name of the 1909 Cubist sculpture Picassos created?
The tightening of the compositions, the clarity and sense of order reflected in these works, led to its being referred to by the critic Maurice Raynal as 'crystal' Cubism	What did the critic Maurice Raynal begin to refer to Cubism in around 1917-1920?
The most innovative period of Cubism was before 1914	Before what year was Cubism considered the most innovative? 
The reemergence of Cubism coincided with the appearance from about 1917–24 of a coherent body of theoretical writing by Pierre Reverdy, Maurice Raynal and Daniel-Henry Kahnweiler and, among the artists, by Gris, Léger and Gleizes	Name the three artists who were in part resonsible for the reemergence of Cubism between 1917 and 1924.
The historical, theoretical, and socio-political relationships between avant-garde practices in painting, sculpture and architecture had early ramifications in France, Germany, the Netherlands and Czechoslovakia	In which four countries were the impacts of avant garde art particularly strong?
Architectural interest in Cubism centered on the dissolution and reconstitution of three-dimensional form, using simple geometric shapes, juxtaposed without the illusions of classical perspective	In Cubism what was architechtural interested base on?
The Cubo-Futurist ideas of Filippo Tommaso Marinetti influenced attitudes in avant-garde architecture	The ideas of which Cubo Futurist influenced the avant-garde in architecture?
La Maison Cubiste was a fully furnished house, with a staircase, wrought iron banisters, a living room—the Salon Bourgeois, where paintings by Marcel Duchamp, Metzinger , Gleizes, Laurencin and Léger were hung—and a bedroom	What was La Maison Cubiste ?
The original Cubist architecture is very rare	Is original Cubist architecture rare?
In their theoretical rules, the Cubist architects expressed the requirement of dynamism, which would surmount the matter and calm contained in it, through a creative idea, so that the result would evoke feelings of dynamism and expressive plasticity in the viewer	What was the essential piece Cubist architects explained in their theoretical rules? 
The leading Cubist architects were Pavel Janák, Josef Gočár, Vlastislav Hofman, Emil Králíček and Josef Chochol	Who were the leading Cubist architects? 
The influence of cubism extended to other artistic fields, outside painting and sculpture	Did cubism influence other fields outside of painting and scuplture?
The poets generally associated with Cubism are Guillaume Apollinaire, Blaise Cendrars, Jean Cocteau, Max Jacob, André Salmon and Pierre Reverdy	Which poets are closely alligned with Cubism?
Chinese political philosophy dates back to the Spring and Autumn Period, specifically with Confucius in the 6th century BC	What specifically dates back with Confucius in the 6th century BC?
Western political philosophy originates in the philosophy of ancient Greece, where political philosophy dates back to at least Plato	Western political philosophy originates in what philosophy?
Indian political philosophy evolved in ancient times and demarcated a clear distinction between nation and state religion and state	What demarcates a clear distinction between nation and state, as well as religion and state?
Chanakya, 4th Century BC Indian political philosopher	Who was the 4th Century BC Indian political philosopher?
The early Christian philosophy of Augustine of Hippo was heavily influenced by Plato	Who heavily influenced the early Christian philosophy of Augustine of Hippo?
The rise of Islam, based on both the Qur'an and Muhammad strongly altered the power balances and perceptions of origin of power in the Mediterranean region	What strongly altered the power balances and perceptions of origin of power in the Mediterranean region?
Islamic political philosophy, was, indeed, rooted in the very sources of Islam—i	The clashes between Ehl-i Sunna and Shia had what kind of character? 
Medieval political philosophy in Europe was heavily influenced by Christian thinking	What was heavily influenced by Christian thinking?
One of the most influential works during this burgeoning period was Niccolò Machiavelli's The Prince, written between 1511–12 and published in 1532, after Machiavelli's death	What was one of the most influential works during the period? 
These theorists were driven by two basic questions: one, by what right or need do people form states; and two, what the best form for a state could be	What would refer to a set of enduring institutions through which power would be distributed and its use justified? 
Political and economic relations were drastically influenced by these theories as the concept of the guild was subordinated to the theory of free trade, and Roman Catholic dominance of theology was increasingly challenged by Protestant churches subordinate to each nation-state, which also preached in the vulgar or native language of each region	The concept of the guild was subordinated to the theory of what?
In the Ottoman Empire, these ideological reforms did not take place and these views did not integrate into common thought until much later	In what area did these ideological reforms not take place until much later?
John Locke in particular exemplified this new age of political theory with his work Two Treatises of Government	Who was responsible for the work Two Treatises of Government?
The Marxist critique of capitalism — developed with Friedrich Engels — was, alongside liberalism and fascism, one of the defining ideological movements of the Twentieth Century	Who developed the Marxist critique of capitalism?
World War I was a watershed event in human history, changing views of governments and politics	What was a watershed event in human history?
From the end of World War II until 1971, when John Rawls published A Theory of Justice, political philosophy declined in the Anglo-American academic world, as analytic philosophers expressed skepticism about the possibility that normative judgments had cognitive content, and political science turned toward statistical methods and behavioralism	Who published A Theory of Justice? 
Communism remained an important focus especially during the 1950s and 1960s	What remained an important focus during the 1950s and 1960s?
In Anglo-American academic political philosophy, the publication of John Rawls's A Theory of Justice in 1971 is considered a milestone	What did John Rawsl publish?
Out of the Frankfurt School, thinkers like Herbert Marcuse, Theodor W	Herbert Marcuse was from what school?
The liberal-communitarian debate is often considered valuable for generating a new set of philosophical problems, rather than a profound and illuminating clash of perspective	What is often considered valuable for generating a new set of philosophical problems? 
A pair of overlapping political perspectives arising toward the end of the 20th century are republicanism and the capability approach	When did republicanism and the capability approach arise?
An alloy is a mixture of metals or a mixture of a metal and another element	What is an alloy?
An alloy is a mixture of either pure or fairly pure chemical elements, which forms an impure substance that retains the characteristics of a metal	What kind of substance is an alloy?
Adding a small amount of non-metallic carbon to iron produces an alloy called steel	How is steel produced?
If the metals remain soluble when solid, the alloy forms a solid solution, becoming a homogeneous structure consisting of identical crystals, called a phase	What causes an alloy to form a solid solution?
Some alloys occur naturally, such as electrum, which is an alloy that is native to Earth, consisting of silver and gold	What is electrum made of?
The primary metal is called the base, the matrix, or the solvent	The matrix and the solvent are other names for what?
Sulfur combines readily with iron to form iron sulfide, which is very brittle, creating weak spots in the steel	What is a characteristic of iron sulfide?
Steel is such a common alloy that many items made from it, like wheels, barrels, or girders, are simply referred to by the name of the item, assuming it is made of steel	What is the name of a common alloy?
Alloying a metal is done by combining it with one or more other metals or non-metals that often enhance its properties	What can be done to a metal to enhance its properties?
However, some alloys can also have their properties altered by heat treatment	What kind of treatment can be made to alter it's properties?
The steel then becomes heterogeneous, being formed of two phases; the carbon phase cementite, and ferrite	What is the name of steel when it is being formed of two phases?
Conversely, most heat-treatable alloys are precipitation hardening alloys, which produce the opposite effects that steel does	Precipitation hardening alloys produce the opposite effects of?
Examples of substitutional alloys include bronze and brass, in which some of the copper atoms are substituted with either tin or zinc atoms	Bronze and brass are examples of what?
The use of alloys by humans started with the use of meteoric iron, a naturally occurring alloy of nickel and iron	What was one of the first alloys used by humans?
Iron is usually found as iron ore on Earth, except for one deposit of native iron in Greenland, which was used by the Inuit people	Where is the only iron deposit on earth?
Mercury dissolves many metals, such as gold, silver, and tin, to form amalgams 	What does mercury make most metals do?
Many ancient civilizations alloyed metals for purely aesthetic purposes	Ancient civilizations often alloyed metals for what reason?
The term pewter covers a variety of alloys consisting primarily of tin	Pewter is mostly made up of?
The first known smelting of iron began in Anatolia, around 1800 BC	Where did smelting of iron begin?
The ability to modify the hardness of steel by heat treatment had been known since 1100 BC, and the rare material was valued for the manufacture of tools and weapons	Heat treatment of steel has been know since what time?
With the introduction of the blast furnace to Europe in the Middle Ages, pig iron was able to be produced in much higher volumes than wrought iron	What did the blast furnace help do to pig iron in the middle ages?
In 1906, precipitation hardening alloys were discovered by Alfred Wilm	Who discovered precipitation hardening alloys?
Norfolk Island is a small island in the Pacific Ocean located between Australia, New Zealand and New Caledonia, 1,412 kilometres directly east of mainland Australia's Evans Head, and about 900 kilometres from Lord Howe Island	In what ocean is Norfolk Island found?
Norfolk Island was colonised by East Polynesians but was long unpeopled when it was settled by Great Britain as part of its settlement of Australia from 1788	Who was Norfolk Island colonised by?
In 1786 the British government included Norfolk Island as an auxiliary settlement, as proposed by John Call, in its plan for colonisation of New South Wales	In what year did the British government include Norfolk Island as a auxiliary settlement?
As early as 1794, Lieutenant-Governor of New South Wales Francis Grose suggested its closure as a penal settlement, as it was too remote and difficult for shipping and too costly to maintain	When did Lieutenant-Governor of New South Wales Francis Grose start suggesting Norfolk Island be closed as a penal settlement?
"In 1824 the British government instructed the Governor of New South Wales Thomas Brisbane to occupy Norfolk Island as a place to send ""the worst description of convicts"""	Who instructed the Governor of New South Wales Thomas Brisbane to send the worst convicts to Norfolk Island?
These were the descendants of Tahitians and the HMS Bounty mutineers, including those of Fletcher Christian	Who were the next settlement of people on Norfolk Island descended from?
After the creation of the Commonwealth of Australia in 1901, Norfolk Island was placed under the authority of the new Commonwealth government to be administered as an external territory	When was the Commonwealth of Australia created?
Financial problems and a reduction in tourism led to Norfolk Island's administration appealing to the Australian federal government for assistance in 2010	 What lead to Norfolk Island asking for assistance from Australia in 2010?
Norfolk Island is located in the South Pacific Ocean, east of the Australian mainland	What part of the Pacific Ocean is Norfolk Island located?
The coastline of Norfolk Island consists, to varying degrees, of cliff faces	What is the coastline of Norfolk made of?
Norfolk Island has 174 native plants; 51 of them are endemic	How many plants can only be found on Norfolk Island?
As a relatively small and isolated oceanic island, Norfolk has few land birds but a high degree of endemicity among them	What type of bird does Norfolk Island have few of?
The Norfolk Island Group Nepean Island is also home to breeding seabirds	What island in the Norfolk Island Group is home to breeding seabirds?
Cetaceans were historically abundant around the island as commercial hunts on the island was operating until 1956	What used to be abundant in the waters around Norfolk Island?
Sixty-two percent of islanders are Christians	Christians make up what percentage of the population of Norfolk Island?
Islanders speak both English and a creole language known as Norfuk, a blend of 18th-century English and Tahitian	What languages do residents of Norfolk Island speak?
Norfolk Island is the only non-mainland Australian territory to have achieved self-governance	What is the only non-mainland Australian territory that is governed by itself?
The Assembly consisted of nine seats, with electors casting nine equal votes, of which no more than two could be given to any individual candidate	The Assembly of Norfolk Island is made of how many seats?
Under the more radical of two models proposed in the review, the island's legislative assembly would have been reduced to the status of a local council	How many models did Australia propose to Norfolk Island's legislative assembly?
It was announced on 19 March 2015 that self-governance for the island would be revoked by the Commonwealth and replaced by a local council with the state of New South Wales providing services to the island	When did the Commonwealth of Australia announce that Norfolk Island would no longer be governed by itself?
"On 8 May 2015, voters were asked if Norfolk Islanders should freely determine their political status and their economic, social and cultural development, and to ""be consulted at referendum or plebiscite on the future model of governance for Norfolk Island before such changes are acted upon by the Australian parliament"""	When did the Legislative Assembly of Norfolk Island vote regarding the proposed Australian reforms?
Norfolk Island was originally a colony acquired by settlement but was never within the British Settlements Act	Norfolk Island was originally a what?
The island is subject to separate immigration controls from the remainder of Australia	What has been heavily restricted in Norfolk Island, until recently?
Australian citizens and residents from other parts of the nation now have automatic right of residence on the island after meeting these criteria (Immigration (Amendment No	What automatic right do Australian citizens and residents have on Norfolk Island after meeting the criteria in Immigration Act 2012?
"Non-Australian citizens who are Australian permanent residents should be aware that during their stay on Norfolk Island they are ""outside of Australia"" for the purposes of the Migration Act"	"What Act declares Non-Australian residents ""outside of Australia"" while they are on Norfolk Island?"
Norfolk Island Hospital is the only medical centre on the island	What is the name of the only medical center on Norfolk Island?
There is a strong belief on the island that some of the revenue generated from Norfolk's EEZ should be available to providing services such as health and infrastructure on the island, which the island has been responsible for, similar to how the Northern Territory is able to access revenue from their mineral resources	What services do Norfolk Island residents believe should be made available from the Norfolk Island's EEZ profit?
Residents of Norfolk Island do not pay Australian federal taxes, creating a tax haven for locals and visitors alike	Norfolk Island inhabitants and visitors don't pay what?
As of 2004, 2532 telephone main lines are in use, a mix of analog and digital circuits	How many main telephone lines were being used on Norfolk Island, as of 2004?
Loading jetties are located at Kingston and Cascade, but ships cannot get close to either of them	Where are loading jetties found on Norfolk Island?
Burke was born in Dublin, Ireland	Where was Burke born?
In 1744, Burke started at Trinity College Dublin, a Protestant establishment, which up until 1793, did not permit Catholics to take degrees	When did Burke begin attending Trinity College Dublin?
Lord Chesterfield and Bishop Warburton initially thought that the work was genuinely by Bolingbroke rather than a satire	Which bishop didn't realize the satirical nature of Burke's book?
"Richard Hurd believed that Burke's imitation was near-perfect and that this defeated his purpose: an ironist ""should take care by a constant exaggeration to make the ridicule shine through the Imitation"	Who thought that Burke's imitation was too perfect to be effective ridicule?
"On 25 February 1757, Burke signed a contract with Robert Dodsley to write a ""history of England from the time of Julius Caesar to the end of the reign of Queen Anne"", its length being eighty quarto sheets , nearly 400,000 words"	When did Burke sign a contract for a history of England?
During the year following that contract, with Dodsley, Burke founded the influential Annual Register, a publication in which various authors evaluated the international political events of the previous year	What publication did Burke found?
At about this same time, Burke was introduced to William Gerard Hamilton 	What was William Gerard Hamilton's nickname?
Burke took a leading role in the debate regarding the constitutional limits to the executive authority of the king	Who did Burke want constitutional limits on the power of?
His constituents, citizens of the great trading city of Bristol, however urged Burke to oppose free trade with Ireland	What country did Burke propose restricting trade with?
His first concern was that the use of force would have to be temporary, and that the uprisings and objections to British governance in America would not be	Where was Burke worried Britain might not win a war?
"Among the reasons this speech was so greatly admired was its passage on Lord Bathurst ; Burke describes an angel in 1704 prophesying to Bathurst the future greatness of England and also of America: ""Young man, There is America – which at this day serves little more than to amuse you with stories of savage men, and uncouth manners; yet shall, before you taste of death, shew itself equal to the whole of that commerce which now attracts the envy of the world"""	When did Lord Bathurst die?
The administration of Lord North tried to defeat the colonist rebellion by military force	When did Lord North take office?
Previously, Paymasters had been able to draw on money from HM Treasury at their discretion	Where had Paymasters been able to get money from directly until 1782?
While admitting that theoretically, in some cases it might be desirable, he insisted a democratic government in Britain in his day would not only be inept, but also oppressive	What type of government did Burke think would be inept?
For years Burke pursued impeachment efforts against Warren Hastings, formerly Governor-General of Bengal, that resulted in the trial during 1786	When was Warren Hastings impeached?
On 4 April 1786, Burke presented the Commons with the Article of Charge of High Crimes and Misdemeanors against Hastings	When did Burke charge Hastings for impeachment?
The events of 5–6 October 1789, when a crowd of Parisian women marched on Versailles to compel King Louis XVI to return to Paris, turned Burke against it	Who did Parisian women want to return to Paris?
Richard Price's sermon of 4 November 1789 entitled, A Discourse on the Love of our Country, to the Revolution Society	When did Richard Price give a sermon to the Revolution Society?
Immediately after reading Price's sermon, Burke wrote a draft of what eventually became, Reflections on the Revolution in France	Which of Burke's writings was inspired by Price's sermon?
"Burke put forward that ""We fear God, we look up with awe to kings; with affection to parliaments; with duty to magistrates; with reverence to priests; and with respect to nobility"	Who did Burke say we look up to with awe?
The most famous passage in Burke's Reflections was his description of the events of 5–6 October 1789 and the part of Marie-Antoinette in them	Who was featured in the most well-known part of Burke's Reflections?
"Louis XVI translated the Reflections ""from end to end"" into French"	Who re-translated the Reflections into French?
Thomas Paine penned the Rights of Man in 1791 as a response to Burke; Mary Wollstonecraft published A Vindication of the Rights of Men and James Mackintosh wrote Vindiciae Gallicae	Who wrote 'The Rights of Man'?
"In November 1790, François-Louis-Thibault de Menonville, a member of the National Assembly of France, wrote to Burke, praising Reflections and requesting more ""very refreshing mental food"" that he could publish"	"Who asked Burke for more ""very refreshing mental food""?"
"In debate in Parliament on Britain's relations with Russia, Fox praised the principles of the revolution, although Burke was not able to reply at this time as he was ""overpowered by continued cries of question from his own side of the House"""	Fox praised revolutionary principles in a debate about which country?
Burke demonstrated his separation from the party on 5 June 1791 by writing to Fitzwilliam, declining money from him	When did Burke leave the Whig party?
Burke knew that many members of the Whig Party did not share Fox's views and he wanted to provoke them into condemning the French Revolution	What did Burke want the Whigs to condemn?
Although Whig grandees such as Portland and Fitzwilliam privately agreed with Burke's Appeal, they wished he had used more moderate language	Who thought Burke should have written in a more moderate tone?
"Burke also supported the royalist uprising in La Vendée, describing it on 4 November 1793 in a letter to William Windham, as ""the sole affair I have much heart in"""	Who did Burke write to on Nov 4, 1793?
le comte d'Artois), dated 23 October, requesting that he intercede on behalf of the royalists to the Government	When did Prince Charles write to Burke?
On 20 June 1794, Burke received a vote of thanks from the Commons for his services in the Hastings Trial and he immediately resigned his seat, being replaced by his son Richard	When did Burke receive a vote of thanks?
Burke's last publications were the Letters on a Regicide Peace , called forth by negotiations for peace with France by the Pitt government	What was Burke's final publication?
"Burke regarded the war with France as ideological, against an ""armed doctrine"""	What did Burke think the war with France was against?
In November 1795, there was a debate in Parliament on the high price of corn and Burke wrote a memorandum to Pitt on the subject	Who did Burke write to about the price of corn?
"Writing to a friend in May 1795, Burke surveyed the causes of discontent: ""I think I can hardly overrate the malignity of the principles of Protestant ascendency, as they affect Ireland; or of Indianism [i"	Whose ascendancy did Burke think was malignant?
Burke believed that property was essential to human life	What did Burke think was crucial for human life?
"Burke's friend Philip Francis wrote that Burke ""was a man who truly & prophetically foresaw all the consequences which would rise from the adoption of the French principles"" but because Burke wrote with so much passion, people were doubtful of his arguments"	Who thought Burke was prophetic about the French revolution's consequences?
"The 19th-century Liberal Prime Minister William Ewart Gladstone considered Burke ""a magazine of wisdom on Ireland and America"" and in his diary recorded: ""Made many extracts from Burke—sometimes almost divine"""	What political party was Gladstone in?
"The historian Piers Brendon asserts that Burke laid the moral foundations for the British Empire, epitomised in the trial of Warren Hastings, that was ultimately to be its undoing: when Burke stated that ""The British Empire must be governed on a plan of freedom, for it will be governed by no other"", this was """	Who thought Burke's trial of Hastings was a moral foundation of the British Empire?
Born in Ireland to a Catholic mother and a Protestant father, Burke vigorously defended the Anglican Church, but also demonstrated sensitivity to Catholic concerns	Which church did Burke most defend?
The Independent State of Samoa ), commonly known as Samoa and formerly known as Western Samoa, is a Unitary Parliamentary Republic with eleven administrative divisions	What was Samoa's old name?
The Samoan origins are currently being reassessed due to new scientific evidence and carbon dating findings from 2003 and onwards	In what year did new discoveries change the course of research on Samoan origins?
Mission work in Samoa had begun in late 1830 by John Williams, of the London Missionary Society arriving in Sapapali'i from The Cook Islands and Tahiti	Who was the first missionary in Samoa?
Britain also sent troops to protect British business enterprise, harbour rights, and consulate office	What country sent their military to protect their interests in Samoa?
From the end of World War I until 1962, New Zealand controlled Samoa as a Class C Mandate under trusteeship through the League of Nations, then through the United Nations	What country was in control of Samoa up until 1962?
By the late 1920s the resistance movement against colonial rule had gathered widespread support	What decade marked the peak of support for opposition to New Zealand's governance?
The officers began to fire randomly into the crowd and a Lewis machine gun, mounted in preparation for this demonstration, was used to disperse the demonstrators	What kind of weapon was used against the Mau demonstrators?
After repeated efforts by the Samoan independence movement, the New Zealand Western Samoa Act 1961 of 24 November 1961 granted Samoa independence effective 1 January 1962, upon which the Trusteeship Agreement terminated	What act gave Samoa independence?
Fiame Mata'afa Faumuina Mulinu’u II, one of the four highest-ranking paramount chiefs in the country, became Samoa's first Prime Minister	What office was held by Fiame Mata'afa Faumuina Mulinu'u II?
The unicameral legislature consists of 49 members serving 5-year terms	What do Samoans call their legislative body?
For example, the District of A'ana has its capital at Leulumoega	What district is Leulumoega the capital of?
The Samoan islands have been produced by vulcanism, the source of which is the Samoa hotspot which is probably the result of a mantle plume	What natural process formed the land masses that would become the Samoan islands?
The country currency is the Samoan tālā, issued and regulated by the Central Bank of Samoa	What institution is in charge of Samoa's currency?
The Samoan government has called for deregulation of the financial sector, encouragement of investment, and continued fiscal discipline	In which sector would the government of Samoa like to see deregulation?
In the period before German colonisation, Samoa produced mostly copra	What was Samoa's major production product before the Germans arrived?
The staple products of Samoa are copra , cocoa bean , and bananas	What is copra?
Samoans' religious adherence includes the following: Christian Congregational Church of Samoa 31	What's the most popular church in Samoa?
Some Samoans are spiritual and religious, and have subtly adapted the dominant religion of Christianity to 'fit in' with fa'a Samoa and vice versa	What religion is practiced by the vast majority of Samoans?
The Samoan word for dance is siva with unique gentle movements of the body in time to music and which tells a story, although the Samoan male dances can be more physical and snappy	"What does ""siva"" mean in Samoan?"
Albert Wendt is a significant Samoan writer whose novels and stories tell the Samoan experience	What Samoan author write Flying Fox in Freedom Tree?
In music, popular local bands include The Five Stars, Penina o Tiafau and Punialava'a	What popular Samoan band has a number in its name?
Lemi Ponifasio is a director and choreographer who is prominent internationally with his dance Company MAU	What did Lemi Ponifasio name his dance company?
Director Sima Urale is an award-winning filmmaker	Who made the film O Tamaiti?
Rugby union is the national sport in Samoa and the national team, nicknamed the Manu Samoa, is consistently competitive against teams from vastly more populous nations	What do Samoans affectionately call their national rugby team?
Rugby league is mostly played by Samoans living in New Zealand and Australia, with Samoa reaching the quarter finals of the 2013 Rugby League World Cup made of players playing in the NRL, Super League and domestic players	In what competition did the Samoan rugby team reach the quarter finals in 2013?
Pope Paul VI , born Giovanni Battista Enrico Antonio Maria Montini ; 26 September 1897 – 6 August 1978), reigned as Pope from 21 June 1963 to his death in 1978	On What date was Pope Paul VI born?
Paul VI was a Marian devotee, speaking repeatedly to Marian congresses and mariological meetings, visiting Marian shrines and issuing three Marian encyclicals	What type of devotee was Pope Paul VI?
Giovanni Battista Montini was born in the village of Concesio, in the province of Brescia, Lombardy in 1897	In what Italian province was Giovanni Battista Montini born?
In 1916, he entered the seminary to become a Roman Catholic priest	In what year did Montini enter the Catholic seminary to become a priest?
"Like Achille Ratti before him, he felt confronted with the huge problem, not limited to Poland, of excessive nationalism: ""This form of nationalism treats foreigners as enemies, especially foreigners with whom one has common frontiers"	What political problem did Montini feel he needed to address as a diplomat in Poland?
His organisational skills led him to a career in the Roman Curia, the papal civil service	What type of natural ability helped Montini in his career in the Roman Curia?
" Montini was in charge of taking care of the ""ordinary affairs"" of the Secretariat of State, which took much of the mornings of every working day"	What department did Montini oversee when he worked with the Secretariat of State?
At the request of the pope, he created an information office for prisoners of war and refugees, which in the years of its existence from 1939 until 1947 received almost ten million information requests and produced over eleven million (11	In what year was the office for information for prisoners and refugees founded?
At the request of Pius XII, Montini was also involved in the re-establishment of Church Asylum, providing protection to hundreds of Allied soldiers, who had escaped from Axis prison camps, Jews, anti-Fascists, Socialists, Communists, and after the liberation of Rome, German soldiers, partisans and other displaced persons	Who requested Montini become involved in the Church Asylum movement?
Peter's Basilica on 12 December 1954	In what year did Pius XII deliver a radio address announcing Montini's papal appointment?
"Montini and Angelo Roncalli were considered to be friends, but when Roncalli, as Pope John XXIII announced a new Ecumenical Council, Cardinal Montini reacted with disbelief and said to Giulio Bevilacqua: ""This old boy does not know what a hornets nest he is stirring up"	What group did Montini oppose reforming?
During his period in Milan, Montini was known as a progressive member of the Catholic hierarchy	What type of political viewpoint was Montini known for as a member of the Catholic leadership?
Pius XII asked Archbishop Montini to Rome October 1957, where he gave the main presentation to the Second World Congress of Lay Apostolate	To whom did Montini speak as an archbishop in the year 1957?
Although some cardinals seem to have viewed him as papabile, a likely candidate to become pope, and may have received some votes in the 1958 conclave, Montini was not yet a cardinal, which made him an unlikely choice	What role was Montini not considered a likely candidate for?
As a Cardinal, Montini journeyed to Africa , where he visited Ghana, Sudan, Kenya, Congo, Rhodesia, South Africa, and Nigeria	What country did Montini visit as Cardinal?
Unlike the papabile cardinals Giacomo Lercaro of Bologna and Giuseppe Siri of Genoa, he was not identified with either the left or right, nor was he seen as a radical reformer	What role was Montini not perceived to fill unlike some of his fellow cardinals?
Paul VI donated his own Papal Tiara, a gift from his former Archdiocese of Milan, to the Basilica of the National Shrine of the Immaculate Conception in Washington, DC as a gift to American Catholics	What did Paul VI donate to the Basilica of the National Shrine of the Immaculate Conception ?
 Cardinal Augustin Bea, the President of the Christian Unity Secretariat, always had the full support of Paul VI in his attempts to ensure that the Council language was friendly and open to the sensitivities of Protestant and Orthodox Churches, whom he had invited to all sessions at the request of Pope John XXIII	Who was President of the Christian Unity Secretariat?
He told them that in Milan he started a dialogue with the modern world and asked them to seek contact with all people from all walks of life	What did Paul VI want to keep open with the modern world and people from all walks of life?
He reminded the council fathers that only a few years earlier Pope Pius XII had issued the encyclical Mystici corporis about the mystical body of Christ	What edict did Pope Pius XXIII issue regarding the body of Christ?
Paul VI opened the third period on 14 September 1964, telling the Council Fathers that he viewed the text about the Church as the most important document to come out from the Council	What topic did Paul VI see as the most important to the church counsel?
Between the third and fourth sessions the pope announced reforms in the areas of Roman Curia, revision of Canon Law, regulations for mixed marriages involving several faiths, and birth control issues	What did Paul VI enact between the third and fourth ecumenical sessions?
Pope Paul VI knew the Roman Curia well, having worked there for a generation from 1922 to 1954	For whom did Paul VI work for from 1922 to 1954?
Paul VI revolutionized papal elections by ordering that only cardinals below the age of eighty might participate in future conclaves	At what age were cardinals restricted by Paul Vi from participating in conclaves?
During the pontificate of Pius XII, the Vatican eased regulations on the use of Latin in Roman Catholic liturgies, permitting some use of vernacular languages during baptisms, funerals and other events	What language was traditionally used in Roman Catholic services?
The Mass of Paul VI was also in Latin but approval was given for the use of vernacular languages	What type of language did Paul Vi's reforms approve for use in the Catholic mass?
This latter was in 1993 incorporated by Pope John Paul II in the Pontifical Council for Culture, which he had established in 1982	Who established the Pontifical Council for Culture?
In 1976 Montini became the first pontiff in modern history to deny the accusation of homosexuality	In what year was pre and extra marital sex outlawed by the Catholic church?
"Pope Paul VI became the first pope to visit six continents, and was the most travelled pope in history to that time, earning the nickname ""the Pilgrim Pope"""	How many continents did Paul Vi visit as pope?
Pope Paul VI became the first reigning pontiff ever to visit the Americas when he flew to New York in October 1965 to address the United Nations	What group did Paul VI address in New York in 1965?
The number of foreign embassies accredited to the Vatican doubled during his pontificate	What number doubled during Paul Vi's papacy?
Ecclesiam suam was given at St	What catholic document compares the Catholic church to the body of Christ?
Celibacy symbolizes the reality of the kingdom of God amid modern society	What is considered an ideal state for priests in the Catholic church?
Of his eight encyclicals, Pope Paul VI is best known for his encyclical Humanae vitae , published on 25 July 1968	Which one of Paul Vi's encyclicals best known in Catholic history?
They constitute a union of the loving couple with a loving God, in which the two persons create a new person materially, while God completes the creation by adding the soul	According to Paul VI to whom are a man and woman in union with besides each other?
As World Bank President Robert McNamara declared at the 1968 Annual Meeting of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank Group that countries permitting birth control practices would get preferential access to resources, doctors in La Paz, Bolivia called it insulting that money should be exchanged for the conscience of a Catholic nation	Who was president of the World Bank in 1968?
"He fully anticipated this reaction to be a temporary one: ""Don't be afraid"", he reportedly told Edouard Gagnon on the eve of the encyclical, ""in twenty years time they'll call me a prophet"	"To whom did Paul VI tell ""not to be afraid"" when the church released its statement on birth control?"
After the Council, many of them took initiative to seek out their Catholic counterparts and the Pope in Rome, who welcomed such visits	In what city did the pope encourage visits from Catholics from other countries?
It produced the Catholic-Orthodox Joint declaration of 1965, which was read out on 7 December 1965, simultaneously at a public meeting of the Second Vatican Council in Rome and at a special ceremony in Istanbul	What statement addressed the relationship of Italy to Greece in the Catholic church?
Paul VI was the first pope to receive an Anglican Archbishop of Canterbury, Michael Ramsey in official audience as Head of Church, after the private audience visit of Archbishop Geoffrey Fisher to Pope John XXIII on 2 December 1960	Who was the first pope to meet with an Anglican Archbishop as an official Head of Church since 1960?
"Cardinal Augustin Bea, the head of the Secretariat for Promoting Christian Unity, added at the end of the visit, ""Let us move forward in Christ"	What did the Cardinal Augustin Bea's Secretariat promote?
In 1965, Paul VI decided on the creation of a joint working group with the World Council of Churches to map all possible avenues of dialogue and cooperation	In what year was a group created to work with the World Council of Churches to increase dialogue between Catholic Christians and other Christian denominations?
The Lutherans were the first Protestant Church offering a dialogue to the Catholic Church in September 1964 in Reykjavík, Iceland	Which protestants were the first to reach out to the Catholic church in 1964 in Iceland?
"When Cardinal Augustin Bea went to see him for permission for a joint Catholic-Protestant translation of the Bible with Protestant Bible societies, the pope walked towards him and exclaimed, ""as far as the cooperation with Bible societies is concerned, I am totally in favour"	Who was Paul VI in favor of cooperating with in the translation of the bible?
The next three popes, including Pope Emeritus Benedict XVI, were created cardinals by him	How many future popes did Paul VI create first as cardinals?
Pope Paul VI left the Vatican to go to the papal summer residence, Castel Gandolfo, on 14 July 1978, visiting on the way the tomb of Cardinal Giuseppe Pizzardo, who had introduced him to the Vatican half a century earlier	Where was Paul VI headed to on July 14, 1978?
A miracle attributed to the intercession of Paul VI was approved on 9 May 2014 by Pope Francis	In what year was Paul VI beautified?
In December 2013, Vatican officials approved a supposed miracle that was attributed to the intercession of the late pontiff which was the curing of an unborn child in California, U	According to the Vatican who could the healing of an unborn child be attributed to in the 1990's?
On 24 April 2014, it was reported in the Italian magazine Credere that the late pope could possibly be beatified on 19 October 2014	What magazine broke the story of Paul VI pending saint hood?
He suffered for the attacks on Pius XII for his alleged silences during the Holocaust	What was Pius XII accused of not condemning?
Unlike his predecessors and successors, Paul VI refused to excommunicate the opponents	Who did Paul VI refuse to excommunicate?
During the pontificate of Paul VI, five such synods took place, and he is on record of implementing all their decisions	How many Synod of Bishops took place during Paul VI's papacy?
After communion, the pope suffered a massive heart attack, after which he continued to live for three hours	How long did Paul VI live for after experiencing a massive heart attack in 1978?
In his 1976 consistory, five of twenty cardinals originated from Africa, one of them a son of a tribal chief with fifty wives	How many cardinals were from Africa in 1976?
Refusing a Vatican army of colourful military uniforms from centuries, he got rid of them	What type of theatrical uniforms did Paul VI eradicate from the Vatican?
The largest of electric motors are used for ship propulsion, pipeline compression and pumped-storage applications with ratings reaching 100 megawatts	What is the largest rating of an electric motor?
Perhaps the first electric motors were simple electrostatic devices created by the Scottish monk Andrew Gordon in the 1740s	Who created the first electrostatic device?
In 1827, Hungarian physicist Ányos Jedlik started experimenting with electromagnetic coils	In what year did Jedlik begin experimenting with electromagnetism?
It was not until 1839/40 that other developers worldwide managed to build motors of similar and later also of higher performance	When were developers competing with Jacobi able to match his accomplishments?
The first commutator DC electric motor capable of turning machinery was invented by the British scientist William Sturgeon in 1832	Who developed the first mnotor capable of being used for machinery?
A major turning point in the development of DC machines took place in 1864, when Antonio Pacinotti described for the first time the ring armature with its symmetrically grouped coils closed upon themselves and connected to the bars of a commutator, the brushes of which delivered practically non-fluctuating current	What made Pacinotti's motor an important advancement?
The development of electric motors of acceptable efficiency was delayed for several decades by failure to recognize the extreme importance of a relatively small air gap between rotor and stator	What needs to exist between the rotor and stator for increased efficiency?
Today, electric motors stand for more than half of the electric energy consumption in the US	How much energy do electric motors use in the modern United States?
In 1824, the French physicist François Arago formulated the existence of rotating magnetic fields, termed Arago's rotations, which, by manually turning switches on and off, Walter Baily demonstrated in 1879 as in effect the first primitive induction motor	Who built the first induction motor?
In absence of such current reversal, the motor would brake to a stop	What would a rotor do without current reversal?
The shaft also carries the commutator, a long-lasting rotary electrical switch that periodically reverses the flow of current in the rotor windings as the shaft rotates	What does the communicator do?
Current from the brushes flows through the commutator and one winding of the armature, making it a temporary magnet 	Current flowing to create a temporary magent is called what?
Furthermore, the inductance of the rotor coils causes the voltage across each to rise when its circuit is opened, increasing the sparking of the brushes	How is RFI generated?
Large brushes are desired for a larger brush contact area to maximize motor output, but small brushes are desired for low mass to maximize the speed at which the motor can run without the brushes excessively bouncing and sparking	What are large brushes favorable for?
Because this field is fixed, it cannot be adjusted for speed control	What can a PM motor not be adjusted for?
To minimize overall weight and size, miniature PM motors may use high energy magnets made with neodymium or other strategic elements; most such are neodymium-iron-boron alloy	Why do miniature PM motors use high energy magnets?
Operating at normal power line frequencies, universal motors are often found in a range less than 1000 watts	What is the typical maximum range of universal motors?
An advantage of the universal motor is that AC supplies may be used on motors which have some characteristics more common in DC motors, specifically high starting torque and very compact design if high running speeds are used	What kind of motor can employ both AC and DC?
Many vacuum cleaner and weed trimmer motors exceed 10,000 rpm, while many similar miniature grinders exceed 30,000 rpm	At around what RMP do weed trimmer motors operate?
The shape of the rotor bars determines the speed-torque characteristics	What determines the properties of speed and torque?
An external resistor or other control devices can be connected in the rotor circuit	Where might a resistor be attached?
Reducing the load will cause the motor to speed up, and increasing the load will cause the motor to slow down until the load and motor torque are equal	What will a motor do if the load is reduced?
In the computer gaming world, torque motors are used in force feedback steering wheels	How are torque motors used in computer gaming?
The latter monitors engine speed by counting electrical pulses from the ignition system or from a magnetic pickup and, depending on the speed, makes small adjustments to the amount of current applied to the motor	What element of a combustion engine does a governor monitor?
Another way of saying this is that it has zero slip under usual operating conditions	How much slip does a synchronous motor have?
They start like induction motors, but when slip rate decreases sufficiently, the rotor becomes temporarily magnetized	What do hysteresis synchronous motors' rotors do when slip rate decreases?
Doubly fed electric motors have two independent multiphase winding sets, which contribute active (i	What type of motor has two independent multiphase winding sets?
Optimized for rapid acceleration, these motors have a rotor that is constructed without any iron core	A coreless DC motor is distinguished by what?
Overheating might be an issue for coreless DC motor designs	What is a likely problem of coreless DC motors?
These motors were originally invented to drive the capstan of magnetic tape drives in the burgeoning computer industry, where minimal time to reach operating speed and minimal stopping distance were critical	What are advantages of pancake motors?
Servomotors are used in applications such as machine tools, pen plotters, and other process systems	What may servo motors be used for?
"A servo system differs from some stepper motor applications in that the position feedback is continuous while the motor is running; a stepper system relies on the motor not to ""miss steps"" for short term accuracy, although a stepper system may include a ""home"" switch or other element to provide long-term stability of control"	How do servo motors differ from stepper motors?
Stepper motors are a type of motor frequently used when precise rotations are required	When are stepper motors most useful?
"Simple stepper motor drivers entirely energize or entirely de-energize the field windings, leading the rotor to ""cog"" to a limited number of positions; more sophisticated drivers can proportionally control the power to the field windings, allowing the rotors to position between the cog points and thereby rotate extremely smoothly"	What is a trait of a sophisticated stepper motor?
As drive density increased, the precision and speed limitations of stepper motors made them obsolete for hard drives—the precision limitation made them unusable, and the speed limitation made them uncompetitive—thus newer hard disk drives use voice coil-based head actuator systems	Why were stepper motors abandoned in computer drive designs?
Likewise, many computer plotters used rotary stepper motors for pen and platen movement; the typical alternatives here were either linear stepper motors or servomotors with closed-loop analog control systems	List two alternatives to rotary stepper motors in printer applications.
"This voltage tends to oppose the motor supply voltage and so is called ""back electromotive force """	Voltage opposing the motor supply voltage is called what?
For calculating the torque it is necessary to know the fields in the air gap	What needs to be known to calculate torque?
, operating torque) within a given air-gap area with winding slots and back-iron depth, which determines the physical size of electromagnetic core	Whate decides the size of an electromagnetic core?
The brushless wound-rotor synchronous doubly-fed machine is the only electric machine with a truly dual ported transformer circuit topology (i	What is the only device with dual ported transformer circuit topology?
The continuous torque density of conventional electric machines is determined by the size of the air-gap area and the back-iron depth, which are determined by the power rating of the armature winding set, the speed of the machine, and the achievable air-gap flux density before core saturation	What determines continuous torque density?
An electrostatic motor is based on the attraction and repulsion of electric charge	What type of motor is based on the attraction and repulsion of electric charge?
Switzerland , officially the Swiss Confederation , is a country in Europe	What is the official name of Switzerland?
The establishment of the Swiss Confederation is traditionally dated to 1 August 1291, which is celebrated annually as the Swiss National Day	What is the traditional date of the establishment of the Swiss Confederation?
Straddling the intersection of Germanic and Romance Europe, Switzerland comprises four main linguistic and cultural regions: German, French, Italian and Romansh	Which four main linguistic and cultural regions make up Switzerland?
Switzerland ranks top or close to the top in several metrics of national performance, including government transparency, civil liberties, quality of life, economic competitiveness, and human development	How does Switzerland rank worldwide in areas such as quality of life and civil liberties?
The English name Switzerland is a compound containing Switzer, an obsolete term for the Swiss, which was in use during the 16th to 19th centuries	What was the Swiss term for Switzerland during the 16th - 19th centuries?
"The toponym Schwyz itself is first attested in 972, as Old High German Suittes, ultimately perhaps related to suedan ""to burn"", referring to the area of forest that was burned and cleared to build"	In what year was the toponym Schwyz first attested as Old High German Suittes?
The earliest known cultural tribes of the area were members of the Hallstatt and La Tène cultures, named after the archaeological site of La Tène on the north side of Lake Neuchâtel	What were the two earliest know cultural tribes in Switerland?
In about 260 AD, the fall of the Agri Decumates territory north of the Rhine transformed today's Switzerland into a frontier land of the Empire	In what year did the fall of the Agri Decumates territory transform today's Switzerland?
In the Early Middle Ages, from the end of the 4th century, the western extent of modern-day Switzerland was part of the territory of the Kings of the Burgundians	From the end of the 4th century, what territory was the western extent of modern-day Switzerland part of?
By 1200, the Swiss plateau comprised the dominions of the houses of Savoy, Zähringer, Habsburg, and Kyburg	In 1200, what area did the houses of Savoy, Zahringer, Habsburg, and Kyburg comprise?
"By 1353, the three original cantons had joined with the cantons of Glarus and Zug and the Lucerne, Zürich and Bern city states to form the ""Old Confederacy"" of eight states that existed until the end of the 15th century"	"In what year did the three original cantons join with five other cantons to form the ""Old Confederacy"" of eight states?"
The Old Swiss Confederacy had acquired a reputation of invincibility during these earlier wars, but expansion of the federation suffered a setback in 1515 with the Swiss defeat in the Battle of Marignano	Which Battle was the first to interrupt the seeming invincibility of the Old Swiss Confederacy in 1515?
In 1798, the revolutionary French government conquered Switzerland and imposed a new unified constitution	Who conquered Switzerland in 1798?
When war broke out between France and its rivals, Russian and Austrian forces invaded Switzerland	During the Helvetic Republic, which forces invaded Switzerland when war broke out between France and its rivals?
After a period of unrest with repeated violent clashes such as the Züriputsch of 1839, civil war broke out in 1847 when some Catholic cantons tried to set up a separate alliance 	What did Catholic cantons attempt to set up which caused a civil war in 1839?
Thus, while the rest of Europe saw revolutionary uprisings, the Swiss drew up a constitution which provided for a federal layout, much of it inspired by the American example	What example inspired much of a new Swiss constitution providing for a federal layout?
During World War II, detailed invasion plans were drawn up by the Germans, but Switzerland was never attacked	Though invasion plans were drawn up the the Germans, which war did Switzerland escape attack during?
Switzerland's trade was blockaded by both the Allies and by the Axis	Who blockaded Switzerland's trade during World War II?
Switzerland was the last Western republic to grant women the right to vote	Who did Switzerland finally grant the right to vote to following the rest of the Western republic?
In 2002 Switzerland became a full member of the United Nations, leaving the Vatican City as the last widely recognised state without full UN membership	In what year did Switzerland become a full member of the United Nations?
Extending across the north and south side of the Alps in west-central Europe, Switzerland encompasses a great diversity of landscapes and climates on a limited area of 41,285 square kilometres 	How large is Switzerland?
It contains three basic topographical areas: the Swiss Alps to the south, the Swiss Plateau or Central Plateau, and the Jura mountains on the west	Which basic topographical area is in the south of Switzerland?
At 4,634 m , Monte Rosa is the highest, although the Matterhorn is often regarded as the most famous	What is the highest mountain in Switzerland?
The Swiss climate is generally temperate, but can vary greatly between the localities, from glacial conditions on the mountaintops to the often pleasant near Mediterranean climate at Switzerland's southern tip	Where are Switzerland's glacial conditions located?
A weather phenomenon known as the föhn can occur at all times of the year and is characterised by an unexpectedly warm wind, bringing air of very low relative humidity to the north of the Alps during rainfall periods on the southern face of the Alps	What is the weather phenomena characterized by an unexpected warm wind bringing low reletive humidity to the northern Alps during rainfall in the southern Alps?
Nevertheless, according to the 2014 Environmental Performance Index, Switzerland ranks first among 132 nations in safeguarding the environment, due to its high scores on environmental public health, its heavy reliance on renewable sources of energy , and its control of greenhouse gas emissions	What rank was Switzerland in safeguarding the environment according to the 2014 Environmental Performance Index?
The Federal Constitution adopted in 1848 is the legal foundation of the modern federal state	When was Switzerland's Federal Constitution adopted?
The Swiss Parliament consists of two houses: the Council of States which has 46 representatives who are elected under a system determined by each canton, and the National Council, which consists of 200 members who are elected under a system of proportional representation, depending on the population of each canton	How many members are on the National Council?
The Federal Council constitutes the federal government, directs the federal administration and serves as collective Head of State	What serves as the collective Head of State?
Swiss citizens are subject to three legal jurisdictions: the commune, canton and federal levels	How many legal jurisdictions are Swiss citizens subject to?
Similarly, the federal constitutional initiative allows citizens to put a constitutional amendment to a national vote, if 100,000 voters sign the proposed amendment within 18 months	How many voters are needed to put a constitutional amendment to a national vote?
Under the Federal Constitution, all 26 cantons are equal in status	According to the Federal Constitution, how many cantons are equal in status?
Its policy of neutrality was internationally recognised at the Congress of Vienna in 1815	When was Switzerland's policy of neutrality internationally recognized?
Geneva is the birthplace of the Red Cross and Red Crescent Movement and the Geneva Conventions and, since 2006, hosts the United Nations Human Rights Council	How long has Switzerland hosted the United Nations Human Rights Council?
Apart from the United Nations headquarters, the Swiss Confederation is host to many UN agencies, like the World Health Organization , the International Labour Organization , the International Telecommunication Union , the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees and about 200 other international organisations, including the World Trade Organization and the World Intellectual Property Organization	Besides the U.N. Headquarters, who hosts many U.N. agencies?
The structure of the Swiss militia system stipulates that the soldiers keep their Army issued equipment, including all personal weapons, at home	Where do Swiss militia keep their Army issued equipment?
It has the world's nineteenth largest economy by nominal GDP and the thirty-sixth largest by purchasing power parity	How does the Swiss economy rank worldwide by nominal GDP?
The World Economic Forum's Global Competitiveness Report currently ranks Switzerland's economy as the most competitive in the world, while ranked by the European Union as Europe's most innovative country	What did the World Economic Forum's Global Competetiveness Report Rank Switzerland's economy as?
Switzerland's most important economic sector is manufacturing	What is Switzerland's most important economic sector?
8 million people work in Switzerland; about 25% of employees belonged to a trade union in 2004	What percentage of employees belonged to a trade union in 2004?
Switzerland is a relatively easy place to do business, currently ranking 20th of 189 countries in the Ease of Doing Business Index	How is Switzerland ranked of 189 countries in the Ease of Doing Business Index?
The main sources of income for the federal government are the value-added tax and the direct federal tax and the main expenditure is located in the areas of social welfare and finance & tax	Which sectors are the main source of expenditures for the federal government?
Agricultural protectionism—a rare exception to Switzerland's free trade policies—has contributed to high food prices	What has contributed to high food prices in Switzerland?
Education in Switzerland is very diverse because the constitution of Switzerland delegates the authority for the school system to the cantons	Who has authority of school systems in Switzerland?
There are 12 universities in Switzerland, ten of which are maintained at cantonal level and usually offer a range of non-technical subjects	How many universities are in Switzerland?
Many Nobel prizes have been awarded to Swiss scientists, for example to the world-famous physicist Albert Einstein in the field of physics who developed his Special relativity while working in Bern	What Swiss world famous physicist developed his Special relativity while working in Bern?
Geneva and the nearby French department of Ain co-host the world's largest laboratory, CERN, dedicated to particle physics research	What is the world's largest laboratory?
Switzerland voted against membership in the European Economic Area in a referendum in December 1992 and has since maintained and developed its relationships with the European Union and European countries through bilateral agreements	How has Switzerland maintained its relationships with the EU?
To minimise the negative consequences of Switzerland's isolation from the rest of Europe, Bern and Brussels signed seven bilateral agreements to further liberalise trade ties	How many bilateral agreements did Bern and Brussels sign to further liberalise trade ties?
In 2006, Switzerland approved 1 billion francs of supportive investment in the poorer Southern and Central European countries in support of cooperation and positive ties to the EU as a whole	In 2006, what did Switzerland approve 1 billion francs of supportive investment for?
3% a ballot initiative launched by the national conservative Swiss People's Party to restrict immigration, and thus reintroducing a quota system on the influx of foreigners	In February of 2014, what did Swiss voters narrowly approve to restrict?
The former ten-year moratorium on the construction of new nuclear power plants was the result of a citizens' initiative voted on in 1990 which had passed with 54	What was the former 10-year moratorium on the construction of nuclear plants the result of?
On 25 May 2011 the Swiss government announced that it plans to end its use of nuclear energy in the next 2 or 3 decades	In 2011, what time frame did the Swiss government give for ending its use of nuclear energy?
The most dense rail network in Europe of 5,063 km carries over 350 million passengers annually	How many passengers does the most dense rail network in Europe carry annualy?
Swiss private-public managed road network is funded by road tolls and vehicle taxes	What is the Swiss private-public managed road network funded by?
Switzerland has one of the best environmental records among nations in the developed world; it was one of the countries to sign the Kyoto Protocol in 1998 and ratified it in 2003	When did Switzerland sign the Kyoto Protocol?
Rubbish (except dangerous items, batteries etc	What does Switzerland charge for the disposal of in order to encourage recycling?
Italians were the largest single group of foreigners with 15	Who were the largest single group of foreigners in 2010?
Switzerland has four official languages: principally German (63	How many official languages does Switzerland have?
Aside from the official forms of their respective languages, the four linguistic regions of Switzerland also have their local dialectal forms	How many linguistic regions of Switzerland have their own form of local dialect?
The principal official languages have terms, not used outside of Switzerland, known as Helvetisms	What are terms that are not used outside of Switzerland known as?
Swiss citizens are universally required to buy health insurance from private insurance companies, which in turn are required to accept every applicant	Who are Swiss citizens required to buy health insurance from?
Between two thirds and three quarters of the population live in urban areas	How much of the Swiss population live in urban areas?
The plateau is very densely populated with about 450 people per km2 and the landscape continually shows signs of human presence	What is the population density of the plateau?
Christianity is the predominant religion of Switzerland , divided between the Catholic Church (38	What is the predominant religion of Switzerland?
Geneva converted to Protestantism in 1536, just before John Calvin arrived there	When did Geneva convert to Protestantism?
The linguistically isolated Romansh culture in Graubünden in eastern Switzerland constitutes an exception, it survives only in the upper valleys of the Rhine and the Inn and strives to maintain its rare linguistic tradition	What culture is linguistically isolated from the rest of Switzerland?
Alpine symbolism has played an essential role in shaping the history of the country and the Swiss national identity	What symbolism has played an important role in shaping the history of Switzerland?
The government exerts greater control over broadcast media than print media, especially due to finance and licensing	What causes the government to exert greater control over broadcast media than print media?
Skiing, snowboarding and mountaineering are among the most popular sports in Switzerland, the nature of the country being particularly suited for such activities	What 3 mountain sports are among the most popular in Switzerland?
Swiss are fans of football and the national team is nicknamed the 'Nati'	What is the nickname for the Swiss national football team?
In 2009, Switzerland hosted the IIHF World Championship for the 10th time	What was hosted for the 10th time by Switzerland in 2009?
Motorsport racecourses and events were banned in Switzerland following the 1955 Le Mans disaster with exception to events such as Hillclimbing	What was banned in Switzerland in 1955 after the Le Mans disaster?
Hornussen is another indigenous Swiss sport, which is like a cross between baseball and golf	Which popular Swiss sport is a cross between baseball and golf?
The number of fine-dining establishments is high, particularly in western Switzerland	What part of Switzerland has a particularly high number of fine-dining establishments?
The most popular alcoholic drink in Switzerland is wine	What is the most popular alcoholic drink in Switzerland?
Mali is the eighth-largest country in Africa, with an area of just over 1,240,000 square kilometres 	Of Africa what rank in size country is Mali?
In the late 19th century, during the Scramble for Africa, France seized control of Mali, making it a part of French Sudan	In the latter part of the 19th century what country took control of Mali?
In January 2012, an armed conflict broke out in northern Mali, which Tuareg rebels took control of by April and declared the secession of a new state, Azawad	What area of Mali did conflict arise in January of 2012?
The Songhai Empire's eventual collapse was largely the result of a Moroccan invasion in 1591, under the command of Judar Pasha	The Sonhgai Empire's demise was due to what invasion?
On 19 November 1968, following progressive economic decline, the Keïta regime was overthrown in a bloodless military coup led by Moussa Traoré, a day which is now commemorated as Liberation Day	What regime was overthrown in 1968?
Anti-government protests in 1991 led to a coup, a transitional government, and a new constitution	In what year did Mali get a new constitution? 
From 22 March through 26 March 1991, mass pro-democracy rallies and a nationwide strike was held in both urban and rural communities, which became known as les evenements or the March Revolution	What type of rallies were being held in March of 1991?
26 March 1991 is the day that marks the clash between military soldiers and peaceful demonstrating students which climaxed in the massacre of dozens under the orders of then President Moussa Traoré	Who was president during the March protests?
That afternoon, Lieutenant Colonel Amadou Toumani Touré announced on the radio that he had arrested the dictatorial president, Moussa Traoré	Who announced over the Radio that the president had been arrested?
In January 2012 a Tuareg rebellion began in Northern Mali, led by the National Movement for the Liberation of Azawad	What rebellion began in January of 2012?
Mali lies in the torrid zone and is among the hottest countries in the world	Mali is located in what Zone?
Until the military coup of 22 March 2012 and a second military coup in December 2012, Mali was a constitutional democracy governed by the Constitution of 12 January 1992, which was amended in 1999	What year was the constitution amended from the previous one of 1992?
The president serves as a chief of state and commander in chief of the armed forces	Who is given both titles of commander of armed forces and chief of state?
Mali's highest courts are the Supreme Court, which has both judicial and administrative powers, and a separate Constitutional Court that provides judicial review of legislative acts and serves as an election arbiter	What is Mali's highest court?
Mali underwent economic reform, beginning in 1988 by signing agreements with the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund	In what year did Mali start economic changes?
In 2007, about 48 percent of Malians were younger than 12 years old, 49 percent were 15–64 years old, and 3 percent were 65 and older	In 2007 what percent of people were 12 and under?
An estimated 800,000 people in Mali are descended from slaves	Roughly how many Malians are descendants of slaves?
Although Mali has enjoyed a reasonably good inter-ethnic relationships based on the long history of coexistence, some hereditary servitude and bondage relationship exist, as well as ethnic tension between settled Songhai and nomadic Tuaregs of the north	Ethnic tension are between what two groups of people?
Mali faces numerous health challenges related to poverty, malnutrition, and inadequate hygiene and sanitation	What four main health problems do the Malian people currently have?
For example, the International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics and the Aga Khan Foundation, trained women's groups to make equinut, a healthy and nutritional version of the traditional recipe di-dèguè 	What does ICRISTAT stand for?
Malaria and other arthropod-borne diseases are prevalent in Mali, as are a number of infectious diseases such as cholera and tuberculosis	What are the two main prevalent infectious diseases of Mali?
"Malian musical traditions are derived from the griots, who are known as ""Keepers of Memories"""	What is the translation or meaning of a griot?
Raleigh is the capital of the state of North Carolina as well as the seat of Wake County in the United States	What state is Raleigh the capital of?
The Raleigh Metropolitan Statistical Area had an estimated population of 1,214,516 in 2013	What is the MSA of Raleigh?
Raleigh is an early example in the United States of a planned city, chosen as the site of the state capital in 1788 and incorporated in 1792 as such	What kind of city is Raleigh?
The Duke Energy Center for the Performing Arts in Downtown Raleigh features three theater venues and serves as the home for the North Carolina Symphony and the Carolina Ballet	What energy center is downtown?
The city's location was chosen, in part, for being within 11 mi of Isaac Hunter's Tavern, a popular tavern frequented by the state legislators	How many miles is the city from Isaac's Tavern?
After the Civil War began, Governor Zebulon Baird Vance ordered the construction of breastworks around the city as protection from Union troops	Who was the governor during the Civil War?
In 1880, the newspapers News and Observer combined to form The News & Observer	What year did the News and the Observer merge?
In the late nineteenth century, two black Congressmen were elected from North Carolina's 2nd district, the last in 1898	When was the last time two black congressmen were elected?
During the difficult 1930s of the Great Depression, government at all levels was integral to creating jobs	When was the Great Depression?
Raleigh is located in the northeast central region of North Carolina, where the Piedmont and Atlantic Coastal Plain regions meet	Where is Raleigh located?
Downtown area is home to historic neighborhoods and buildings such as the Sir Walter Raleigh Hotel built in the early 20th century, the restored City Market, the Fayetteville Street downtown business district, which includes the PNC Plaza and Wells Fargo Capitol Center buildings, as well as the North Carolina Museum of History, North Carolina Museum of Natural Sciences, North Carolina State Capitol, Peace College, the Raleigh City Museum, Raleigh Convention Center, Shaw University, and St	What historic hotel is downtown?
Midtown Raleigh is a residential and commercial area just North of the I-440 Beltline and is part of North Raleigh	Where is Midtown Raleigh?
It is home to North Carolina State University, Meredith College, Pullen Park, Pullen Memorial Baptist Church, Cameron Village, Lake Johnson, the North Carolina Museum of Art and historic Saint Mary's School	What is West Raleigh the home of?
Primary neighborhoods and subdivisions in North Raleigh include Harrington Grove, Springdale, Dominion Park, Bedford, Bent Tree, Brentwood, Brier Creek, Brookhaven, Black Horse Run, Coachman's Trail, Crossgate, Crosswinds, Falls River, Hidden Valley, Lake Park, North Haven, North Ridge, Oakcroft, Shannon Woods, Six Forks Station, Springdale, Stonebridge, Stone Creek, Stonehenge, Summerfield, Valley Estates, Wakefield, Weathersfield, Windsor Forest, and Wood Valley	What neighborhoods are in North Raleigh?
This area is the least developed and least dense area of Raleigh 	What is different about South Raleigh?
Southeast Raleigh is bounded by downtown on the west, Garner on the southwest, and rural Wake County to the southeast	What is to the west of Southeast Raleigh?
Like much of the southeastern United States, Raleigh has a humid subtropical climate , with four distinct seasons	What is the climate of Raleigh?
On January 24–25, 2000, Raleigh received its greatest snowfall from a single storm – 20	When was the greatest snowfall?
The region also experiences occasional periods of drought, during which the city sometimes has restricted water use by residents	What does the area experience?
As of the 2000 United States census, there were 276,093 persons and 61,371 families residing in Raleigh	How many families lived in Raleigh in 2000?
5% were composed of married couples living together, 11	39.5% of the households comprised of what?
The predominant religion in Raleigh is Christianity, with the largest numbers of adherents being Roman Catholic (11	What is the main religion of Raleigh?
Raleigh's industrial base includes banking/financial services; electrical, medical, electronic and telecommunications equipment; clothing and apparel; food processing; paper products; and pharmaceuticals	What is the main industrial area of Raleigh?
The Time Warner Cable Music Pavilion at Walnut Creek hosts major international touring acts	Where are major touring acts hosted in the city?
The Duke Energy Center for the Performing Arts complex houses the Raleigh Memorial Auditorium, the Fletcher Opera Theater, the Kennedy Theatre, and the Meymandi Concert Hall	Where is the Raleigh Memorial Auditorium?
North Carolina Museum of Art, occupying a large suburban campus on Blue Ridge Road near the North Carolina State Fairgrounds, maintains one of the premier public art collections located between Washington, D	What is the North Carolina Museum of Art near?
The National Hockey League's Carolina Hurricanes franchise moved to Raleigh in 1997 from Hartford, Connecticut 	When did the Carolina Hurricanes start in Raleigh?
Several other professional sports leagues have had former franchises in Raleigh, including the Raleigh IceCaps of the ECHL ; Carolina Cobras of the Arena Football League ; the Raleigh–Durham Skyhawks of the World League of American Football ; the Raleigh Bullfrogs of the Global Basketball Association ; the Raleigh Cougars of the United States Basketball League ; and most recently, the Carolina Courage of the Women's United Soccer Association , which won that league's championship Founders Cup in 2002	What was the name of the GBA team in Raleigh?
North Carolina State University is located in southwest Raleigh where the Wolfpack competes nationally in 24 intercollegiate varsity sports as a member of the Atlantic Coast Conference	Where is North Carolina State University?
The Raleigh Parks and Recreation Department offers a wide variety of leisure opportunities at more than 150 sites throughout the city, which include: 8,100 acres of park land, 78 miles of greenway, 22 community centers, a BMX championship-caliber race track, 112 tennis courts among 25 locations, 5 public lakes, and 8 public aquatic facilities	How many sites are throughout Raleigh?
8	How many ponds are there?
According to the Federal Bureau of Investigation's Uniform Crime Reports, in 2010 the Raleigh Police Department and other agencies in the city reported 1,740 incidents of violent crime and 12,995 incidents of property crime – far below both the national average and the North Carolina average	How many incidents of violent crime were there in 2010?
Public schools in Raleigh are operated by the Wake County Public School System	Who operates the public schools in Raleigh?
Raleigh-Durham International Airport, the region's primary airport and the second-largest in North Carolina, located northwest of downtown Raleigh via Interstate-40 between Raleigh and Durham, serves the city and greater Research Triangle metropolitan region, as well as much of eastern North Carolina	What is the area's primary airport?
Raleigh is also served by Triangle Transit 	What was Triangle Transit called before?
Registered dietitian nutritionists are health professionals qualified to provide safe, evidence-based dietary advice which includes a review of what is eaten, a thorough review of nutritional health, and a personalized nutritional treatment plan	What does RDN stand for?
According to Walter Gratzer, the study of nutrition probably began during the 6th century BC	In which time period did the study of nutrition begin?
The first recorded nutritional experiment with human subjects is found in the Bible's Book of Daniel	What does the Book of Daniel contain?
One mustn't overlook the doctrines of Galen: In use from his life in the 1st century AD until the 17th century, it was heresy to disagree with him for 1500 years	How long was the doctrines of Galen in use for?
In the 1500s, Paracelsus was probably the first to criticize Galen publicly	Who criticized Galen in the 1500s?
Sometimes overlooked during his life, James Lind, a physician in the British navy, performed the first scientific nutrition experiment in 1747	When was the first nutrition experiment performed?
In 1816, François Magendie discovered that dogs fed only carbohydrates , fat , and water died evidently of starvation, but dogs also fed protein survived, identifying protein as an essential dietary component	Which dietary component was not fed to dogs resulting in their death?
In the early 1880s, Kanehiro Takaki observed that Japanese sailors developed beriberi , but British sailors and Japanese naval officers did not	What was the main component of Japanese sailor's diet?
In 1896, Eugen Baumann observed iodine in thyroid glands	What element can be found in thyroid glands?
In the early 20th century, Carl von Voit and Max Rubner independently measured caloric energy expenditure in different species of animals, applying principles of physics in nutrition	What was measured in the early 20th century?
In 1913, Elmer McCollum discovered the first vitamins, fat-soluble vitamin A, and water-soluble vitamin B and named vitamin C as the then-unknown substance preventing scurvy	What was notable about the discovered vitamin A?
"The list of nutrients that people are known to require is, in the words of Marion Nestle, ""almost certainly incomplete"""	Who claims that the list of nutrients that humans require is incomplete?
The macronutrients are carbohydrates, fats, protein, and water	Which category is represented by carbohydrates and fats among other nutrients?
Molecules of carbohydrates and fats consist of carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen atoms	Other than fats, what else consists of atoms of carbon, hydrogen and oxygen?
Traditionally, simple carbohydrates are believed to be absorbed quickly, and therefore to raise blood-glucose levels more rapidly than complex carbohydrates	What was traditionally believed to be absorbed quickly causing blood - glucose levels to rapidly rise?
Dietary fiber is a carbohydrate that is incompletely absorbed in humans and in some animals	What example of a carbohydrate is unable to be fully absorbed in humans?
A molecule of dietary fat typically consists of several fatty acids , bonded to a glycerol	Dietary fat can be said to consist of fatty acids bonded to which molecule?
Saturated fats have been a staple in many world cultures for millennia	Where do saturated fats in a diet typically originate from?
Most fatty acids are non-essential, meaning the body can produce them as needed, generally from other fatty acids and always by expending energy to do so	What does it mean when it is claimed that many fatty acids are non - essential?
Omega-3 EPA prevents AA from being released from membranes, thereby skewing prostaglandin balance away from pro-inflammatory PGE2 toward anti-inflammatory PGE1 	What is able to prevent AA from being released from membranes?
Proteins are structural materials in much of the animal body (e	What primarily makes up the enzymes in our body that regulate the chemical reactions that occur?
It is possible with protein combinations of two incomplete protein sources (e	What would be required for the human body to potentially have a chance to create a complete protein source?
Early recommendations for the quantity of water required for maintenance of good health suggested that 6–8 glasses of water daily is the minimum to maintain proper hydration	What was the early recommended amount of water that was supposedly required to keep the body hydrated?
Recommended intake volumes in the elderly are the same as for adults as despite lower energy consumption, the water requirement of this group is increased due to a reduction in renal concentrating capacity	Who was similar recommended intake volumes as adults?
Dietary minerals are inorganic chemical elements required by living organisms, other than the four elements carbon, hydrogen, nitrogen, and oxygen that are present in nearly all organic molecules	What kind of element are dietary minerals?
(Vitamin D is the exception: it can be synthesized in the skin, in the presence of UVB radiation	Which vitamin can be synthesized in the skin?
, mutation causing) compounds known as free radicals can form	"What is another term that can be used to describe ""potentially damaging"" compounds?"
Animal intestines contain a large population of gut flora	Where could one find a large population of gut flora?
"Heart disease, cancer, obesity, and diabetes are commonly called ""Western"" diseases because these maladies were once rarely seen in developing countries"	Heart disease and obesity are examples of what kind of disease?
The United Healthcare/Pacificare nutrition guideline recommends a whole plant food diet, and recommends using protein only as a condiment with meals	Who released a guideline that recommends that people follow a whole plant food diet?
Carnivore and herbivore diets are contrasting, with basic nitrogen and carbon proportions vary for their particular foods	Other than nitrogen, what other element varies greatly between a carnivore and herbivore diet?
Animal tissue consists of elements and compounds ingested, digested, absorbed, and circulated through the bloodstream to feed the cells of the body	Through what part of the body are nutrients transported to feed cells?
Comparing the food to the waste can help determine the specific compounds and elements absorbed and metabolized in the body	What needs to be compared to the waste products from humans to determine what is absorbed in the body?
Plants uptake essential elements from the soil through their roots and from the air through their leaves	How do plants absorb essential elements that are present in the soil?
Research in the field of nutrition has greatly contributed in finding out the essential facts about how environmental depletion can lead to crucial nutrition-related health problems like contamination, spread of contagious diseases, malnutrition, etc	What can environmental depletion lead to?
"In the US, dietitians are registered or licensed with the Commission for Dietetic Registration and the American Dietetic Association, and are only able to use the title ""dietitian,"" as described by the business and professions codes of each respective state, when they have met specific educational and experiential prerequisites and passed a national registration or licensure examination, respectively"	What is the abbreviation for licensed dietitians in the US?
In the US, nutritional standards and recommendations are established jointly by the US Department of Agriculture and US Department of Health and Human Services	Nutritional standards and recommendations are produced by a joint effort between the US Department of Agriculture and which other department?
An example of a state initiative to promote nutrition literacy is Smart Bodies, a public-private partnership between the state’s largest university system and largest health insurer, Louisiana State Agricultural Center and Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Louisiana Foundation	Smart Bodies is an example of an initiative that was started by what level of government?
In England and Wales, the Personal and Social Education and Food Technology curricula include nutrition, stressing the importance of a balanced diet and teaching how to read nutrition labels on packaging	In England and which other country is there a curricula that revolves around nutritional education?
However, the findings of the 2003 National Assessment of Adult Literacy provide a basis upon which to frame the nutrition literacy problem in the U	What does the abbreviation NAAL represent?
Another study examining the health and nutrition literacy status of residents of the lower Mississippi Delta found that 52 percent of participants had a high likelihood of limited literacy skills	What percentage of people were were found to have a high likelihood of low literacy skills in the Mississippi Delta region?
Among these problems are the lack of information about food choices, a lack of understanding of nutritional information and its application to individual circumstances, limited or difficult access to healthful foods, and a range of cultural influences and socioeconomic constraints such as low levels of education and high levels of poverty that decrease opportunities for healthful eating and living	What did the studies show there was a lack of understanding of by the population?
Malnutrition refers to insufficient, excessive, or imbalanced consumption of nutrients by an organism	An imbalance in the intake of nutrients by any organism can be referred by which term?
Nutritionism is the view that excessive reliance on food science and the study of nutrition can lead to poor nutrition and to ill health	What is the term that refers to a viewpoint that believes a reliance on food science is a cause of poor nutrition and ill health?
Some organizations have begun working with teachers, policymakers, and managed foodservice contractors to mandate improved nutritional content and increased nutritional resources in school cafeterias from primary to university level institutions	What are organizations targeting with the aim of improving nutritional content or resources?
Cancer is now common in developing countries	Which health issue is now becoming a common issue in developing countries?
, insulin resistance) as a decisive factor in many disease states	Reduced insulin function can also go by what other term?
The state of obesity clearly contributes to insulin resistance, which in turn can cause type 2 diabetes	Insulin resistance has been strongly linked to which health issue?
Obesity can unfavourably alter hormonal and metabolic status via resistance to the hormone leptin, and a vicious cycle may occur in which insulin/leptin resistance and obesity aggravate one another	Obesity can cause resistance to which hormone?
There is a debate about how and to what extent different dietary factors— such as intake of processed carbohydrates, total protein, fat, and carbohydrate intake, intake of saturated and trans fatty acids, and low intake of vitamins/minerals—contribute to the development of insulin and leptin resistance	The debate regarding factors influencing the development of insulin and leptin is not just about how, but also about what other factor?
Excess water intake, without replenishment of sodium and potassium salts, leads to hyponatremia, which can further lead to water intoxication at more dangerous levels	Hyponatremia is the term that refers to which action by a human?
The relatively recent increased consumption of sugar has been linked to the rise of some afflictions such as diabetes, obesity, and more recently heart disease	The increase in cases of diabetes, obesity and heart disease can be traced back to an increase in the consumption of what product?
Since the Industrial Revolution some two hundred years ago, the food processing industry has invented many technologies that both help keep foods fresh longer and alter the fresh state of food as they appear in nature	When did the Industrial Revolution roughly begin?
Modern separation techniques such as milling, centrifugation, and pressing have enabled concentration of particular components of food, yielding flour, oils, juices, and so on, and even separate fatty acids, amino acids, vitamins, and minerals	Centrifugation and pressing are prime examples of what?
A dramatic example of the effect of food processing on a population's health is the history of epidemics of beri-beri in people subsisting on polished rice	What did people who became ill with beri-beri have as their main food source?
There is little doubt that the increasingly widespread application of some modern food processing technologies has contributed to this development	What is undoubtedly a cause of the increase in obesity related diseases that are becoming prevalent?
The Crimean War was a military conflict fought between October 1853 – March 1856 in which Russia lost to an alliance of France, the United Kingdom, the Ottoman Empire, and Sardinia	What year did the Crimean War begin?
While the churches eventually worked out their differences and came to an initial agreement, both Nicholas I of Russia and Napoleon III refused to back down	Which two figures refused to back down after the churches worked out their disagreements?
The war opened in the Balkans when Russian troops occupied provinces in modern Romania and began to cross the Danube	Where did the war begin?
Frustrated by the wasted effort, and with demands for action from their citizens, the allied force decided to attack the center of Russian strength in the Black Sea at Sevastopol on the Crimean peninsula	Near what sea did the allies decide to attack the Russians?
Sevastopol fell after eleven months, and formerly neutral countries began to join the allied cause	How long did it take for Sevastopol to fall?
The Crimean War was one of the first conflicts to use modern technologies such as explosive naval shells, railways, and telegraphs	What modern technologies were first used during the Crimean War?
The Greek Uprising evidenced internal and military weakness of Ottoman Empire and caused severe atrocities by Ottoman military forces 	In what year did The Greek Uprising take place?
France used the right moment and occupied Alger in 1830	In what year did France move into Alger?
Muhammad Ali of Egypt was not happy about lack of his control and power in Syria, he resumed military actions	In 1838, who was not pleased of their lack of power in Syria?
"Russia, as a member of the Holy Alliance, had operated as the ""police of Europe"", maintaining the balance of power that had been established in the Treaty of Vienna in 1815"	"Who operated as the ""police of Europe""?"
"For over 200 years, Russia had been expanding southwards across the sparsely populated ""Wild Fields"" toward the warm water ports of the Black Sea that did not freeze over like the handful of other ports available in the north"	For 200 years, Russia been expanding across what area?
Despite its grand ambitions toward the south, it had not built its railroad network in that direction, and communications were poor	What did Russia fail to build south?
The immediate chain of events leading to France and the United Kingdom declaring war on Russia on 27 and 28 March 1854 came from the ambition of the French emperor Napoleon III to restore the grandeur of France	In what year did France and the U.K declare war on Russia?
Napoleon III responded with a show of force, sending the ship of the line Charlemagne to the Black Sea	What was the name of the ship that Napoleon sent to the Black Sea?
Nicholas began courting Britain by means of conversations with the British ambassador, George Hamilton Seymour, in January and February 1853	Who was the British ambassador in 1853?
In February 1853, the British government of Lord Aberdeen, the prime minister, re-appointed Stratford Canning as British ambassador to the Ottoman Empire	Who was the Prime Minister of the British Government in 1853?
Shortly after he learned of the failure of Menshikov's diplomacy toward the end of June 1853, the Tsar sent armies under the commands of Field Marshal Ivan Paskevich and General Mikhail Gorchakov across the Pruth River into the Ottoman-controlled Danubian Principalities of Moldavia and Wallachia	Who sent armies across the Pruth River?
Russia had previously obtained recognition from the Ottoman Empire of the Tsar's role as special guardian of the Orthodox Christians in Moldavia and Wallachia	Who was given the special role of guardian over the Orthodox Christians in Moldavia and Wallachia?
The representatives of the four neutral Great Powers—the United Kingdom, France, Austria and Prussia—met in Vienna, where they drafted a note that they hoped would be acceptable to both the Russians and the Ottomans	What European powers met in Vienna for a conference?
In the Battle of Sinop on 30 November 1853 they destroyed a patrol squadron of Ottoman frigates and corvettes while they were anchored in port	What battle took place on November 30, 1853?
Britain was concerned about Russian activity and Sir John Burgoyne senior advisor to Lord Aberdeen urged that the Dardanelles should be occupied and throw up works of sufficient strength to block any Russian move to capture Constantinople and gain access to the Mediterranean Sea	Who was concerned with Russia capturing Constantinople?
Nicholas felt that, because of Russian assistance in suppressing the Hungarian revolution of 1848, Austria would side with him, or at the very least remain neutral	In what year did the Hungarian revolution take place?
Following the Ottoman ultimatum in September 1853, forces under the Ottoman general Omar Pasha crossed the Danube at Vidin and captured Calafat in October 1853	The Ottoman ultimatum took place in what year?
In the spring of 1854 the Russians again advanced, crossing the Danube River into the Turkish province of Dobruja	Who advanced on Dobruja in the spring of 1854?
In the west, the Russians were dissuaded from attacking Vidin by the presence of the Austrian forces, which had swelled to 280,000 men	Who stopped the Russians from attacking Vidin?
In June 1854, the Allied expeditionary force landed at Varna, a city on the Black Sea's western coast 	The city of Varna is located on what coast of the Black Sea?
The clash came on 30 November 1853 when a Russian fleet attacked an Ottoman force in the harbour at Sinop, and destroyed it at the Battle of Sinop	At what harbor did a Russian fleet attacked a Ottoman force?
"The Russian fleet during this time declined to engage the allies, preferring to maintain a ""fleet in being""; this strategy failed when Sevastopol, the main port and where most of the Black Sea fleet was based, came under siege"	Where was the port where most of the Black Sea fleet was located?
The Russians evacuated Wallachia and Moldavia in late July 1854	In what year did the Russians leave Wallachia and Moldavia?
The Crimean campaign opened in September 1854	In what year did the Crimean campaign open?
The position was strong, but after three hours,:424 the frontal attack had driven the Russians out of their dug in positions with losses of 6000 men	How many men did the Russians lose after three hours?
:426 On 25 September the whole army marched southeast and encircled the city to the south	When did the army march to the southeast? 
The Allied army relocated without problems to the south and the heavy artillery was brought ashore with batteries and connecting trenches built so that by 10 October some batteries were ready and by 17 October—when the bombardment commenced—126 guns were firing, 53 of them French	When did the continuous attack start?
At the start of the battle, a large body of Russian cavalry charged the 93rd Highlanders, who were posted north of the village of Kadikoi	Who did the Russians attack at the beginning off the Battle of Balaclava?
Soon after, a Russian cavalry movement was countered by the Heavy Brigade, who charged and fought hand-to-hand until the Russians retreated	Who countered the Russian cavalry's movement?
Cardigan formed up his unit and charged the length of the Valley of the Balaclava, under fire from Russian batteries in the hills	Who led the charge on the Valley of Balaclava?
Winter, and a deteriorating supply situation on both sides of troops and materiel, led to a halt in ground operations	What stopped ground operations during the winter?
The French being brought around to agree that the key to the defence was the Malakoff	What did the French believe was instrumental in their defense?
During this time the garrison commander, Admiral Nakhimov fell on 30 June 1855	Who was the garrison commander that died on June 30th 1855?
For months each side had been building forward rifle pits and defensive positions, which resulted in many skirmishes	What was being built that caused unpremeditated fighting on each side?
In spring 1855, the allied British-French commanders decided to send an Anglo-French naval squadron into the Azov Sea to undermine Russian communications and supplies to besieged Sevastopol	What did the British-French commanders send to disrupt Russian communications and supplies?
On 12 July 1855 HMS Jasper grounded near Taganrog thanks to a fisherman who moved buoys into shallow water	What caused the HMS Jasper to get stuck in shallow water?
In the north the Turks captured the border fort of Saint Nicholas in a surprise night attack 	Who captured the border front of Saint Nicholas during a night attack?
In the north Eristov pushed southwest, fought two battles, forced the Turks back to Batum, retired behind the Cholok River and suspended action for the rest of the year 	Who make the Turks retreat back to Batum?
1855:Kars: In the year up to May 1855 Turkish forces in the east were reduced from 120,000 to 75,000, mostly by disease	What caused the number of Turkish soldiers to decrease?
1855: Georgian coast: Omar Pasha, the Turkish commander at Crimea had long wanted to land in Georgia, but the western powers vetoed it	Who vetoed Omar Pasha from landing in Georgia?
Popularisation of events elsewhere overshadowed the significance of this theatre, which was close to Saint Petersburg, the Russian capital	What is the Russian capital?
In August 1855 a Franco-British naval force captured and destroyed the Russian Bomarsund fortress on Åland Islands	When did the French and British capture the Russian Bomarsund fortress?
] to the deployment of newly invented blockade mines	What greatly benefited the Russian resistance?
Minor naval skirmishes also occurred in the Far East, where at Petropavlovsk on the Kamchatka Peninsula a British and French Allied squadron including HMS Pique under Rear Admiral David Price and a French force under Counter-Admiral Auguste Febvrier Despointes besieged a smaller Russian force under Rear Admiral Yevfimy Putyatin	Who was in charge of the HMS Pique?
Camillo di Cavour, under orders of Victor Emmanuel II of Piedmont-Sardinia, sent an expeditionary corps of 15,000 soldiers, commanded by General Alfonso La Marmora, to side with French and British forces during the war	Who gave Camillo di Cavour the orders to send soldiers to aid the French and British forces?
When Russia attacked the Ottoman Empire in 1853, King Otto of Greece saw an opportunity to expand North and South into Ottoman areas that had large Greek Christian majorities	When Russia attacked the Ottoman Empire who glimpsed an opportunity to advance North and South?
"On Sunday, 21 January 1855, a ""snowball riot"" occurred in Trafalgar Square near St"	On January 21 1855, where did people protest the war?
Peace negotiations at the Congress of Paris resulted in the signing of the Treaty of Paris on 30 March 1856	Where was the Treaty of Paris signed?
The Treaty of Paris stood until 1871, when France was defeated by Prussia in the Franco-Prussian War of 1870–1871	What year did the Treaty of Paris fall?
Although it was Russia that was punished by the Paris Treaty, in the long run it was Austria that lost the most from the Crimean War despite having barely taken part in it	Who lost the most due to the Crimean War?
The Crimean War marked the ascendancy of France to the position of pre-eminent power on the Continent,:411 the continued decline of the Ottoman Empire, and the beginning of a decline for Tsarist Russia	France rose to power after what war?
W, Kinglake, who portrayed the British as victims of newspaper sensationalism and duplicitous French and Ottoman diplomacy	What did A.W Kinglake make the British out to be?
While Alaska attracted little interest at the time, the population of nearby British Columbia started to increase rapidly a few years after hostilities ended	What did the Russians fear losing without compensation?
Notable documentation of the war was provided by William Howard Russell and the photographs of Roger Fenton	Who provided notable documentation of the war?
Public opinion in the UK was outraged at the logistical and command failures of the war; the newspapers demanded drastic reforms, and parliamentary investigations demonstrated the multiple failures of the Army	Who demanded drastic reforms after the war?
"The Crimean War also saw the first tactical use of railways and other modern inventions, such as the electric telegraph, with the first ""live"" war reporting to The Times by William Howard Russell"	The tactical use of railways was first used during what war?
A nonprofit organization is an organization whose purposes are other than making a profit	What is the definition of a non-profit organization?
The nonprofit landscape is highly varied, although many people have come to associate NPOs with charitable organizations	What types of organizations are NPOs usually associated with?
Although NPOs are permitted to generate surplus revenues, they must be retained by the organization for its self-preservation, expansion, or plans	How does an NPO have to handle surplus money?
Some NPOs may also be a charity or service organization; they may be organized as a profit corporation or as a trust, a cooperative, or they exist informally	How are charity or service NPOs usually organized?
The two major types of nonprofit organization are membership and board-only	What are the two top types of NPOs?
Canada allows nonprofits to be incorporated or unincorporated	How are NPOs classified in Canada?
During 2009, the federal government enacted new legislation repealing the Canada Corporations Act, Part II - the Canada Not-for-Profit Corporations Act	When was the Canada Corporations Act, Part II repealed?
Charitable status is granted by the Canada Revenue Agency upon application by a nonprofit; charities are allowed to issue income tax receipts to donors, must spend a certain percentage of their assets and file annual reports in order to maintain their charitable status	Who grants a charitable status to an NPO in Canada?
In South Africa, charities issue a tax certificate when requested by donors which can be used as a tax deduction by the donor	What do NPOs in South Africa give to their donors?
A charity is a nonprofit organisation that meets stricter criteria regarding its purpose and the method in which it makes decisions and reports its finances	What is the definition of a charity?
That is done typically by applying to the Internal Revenue Service , although statutory exemptions exist for limited types of nonprofit organizations	How does a US NPO apply for tax exempt status?
Individual states and localities offer nonprofits exemptions from other taxes such as sales tax or property tax	What can states or cities offer to NPOs?
The board of directors has ultimate control over the organization, but typically an executive director is hired	Who is in control of the organization?
Most rely on external funding to maintain their operations and changes in these sources of revenue may influence the reliability or predictability with which the organization can hire and retain staff, sustain facilities, create programs, or maintain tax-exempt status	What are ways that a charitable foundation receives money for it's cause?
From an academic perspective, social enterprise is for the most part considered a sub-set of the nonprofit sector as typically they too are concerned with a purpose relating to a public good, however these are not bound to adhere to a nonprofit legal structure and many incorporate and operate as for-profit entities	What is the biggest concern of non-profits in Australia?
Many nonprofit organizations find it difficult to create consistent messaging that resonates with their various stakeholders as marketing budgets are minimal or nonexistent	What kind of marketing budgets do NPOs usually have?
Resource mismanagement is a particular problem with NPOs because the employees are not accountable to anybody with a direct stake in the organization	What is a major hurdle of the financial aspect of an NPO?
Competition for employees with the public and private sector is another problem that Nonprofit organizations will inevitably face, particularly for management positions	What problems with employment do Non Profits face?
Either in the form of higher wages, more comprehensive benefit packages, or less tedious work, the public and private sector has enjoyed an advantage in attracting employees over NPOs	What can the public and private sector offer employers that NPOs usually cannot?
It has been mentioned that most nonprofits will never be able to match the pay of the private sector and therefore should focus their attention on benefits packages, incentives and implementing pleasurable work environments	Can Npos match the wages of public and private sector employers?
In the United States, two of the wealthiest nonprofit organizations are the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, which has an endowment of US$38 billion, and the Howard Hughes Medical Institute originally funded by Hughes Aircraft prior to divestiture, which has an endowment of approximately $14	What is one of the wealthiest nonprofit organizations in America?
Some NPOs which are particularly well known, often for the charitable or social nature of their activities performed during a long period of time, include Amnesty International, Oxfam, Rotary International, Kiwanis International, Carnegie Corporation of New York, Nourishing USA, DEMIRA Deutsche Minenräumer , FIDH International Federation for Human Rights, Goodwill Industries, United Way, ACORN , Habitat for Humanity, Teach For America, the Red Cross and Red Crescent organizations, UNESCO, IEEE, INCOSE, World Wide Fund for Nature, Heifer International, Translators Without Borders and SOS Children's Villages	What is a well known NPO that helps people from low incomes become homeowners?
"org is for ""organizations that didn't fit anywhere else"" in the naming system, which implies that it is the proper category for non-commercial organizations if they are not governmental, educational, or one of the other types with a specific TLD"	What does .org on a URL mean?
"Instead of being defined by ""non"" words, some organizations are suggesting new, positive-sounding terminology to describe the sector"	What type of language has it been suggested that NPOs should begin to get away from?
Literature consists of written productions, often restricted to those deemed to have artistic or intellectual value	What two key elements that distinguish literature as a written form of art?
"Definitions of literature have varied over time; it is a ""culturally relative definition"""	"The changing nature of the meaning of the term ""literature"" can be described as what?"
The value judgement definition of literature considers it to exclusively include writing that possesses high quality or distinction, forming part of the so-called belles-lettres tradition	What is the main component of the qualitative judgment definition of literature?
T	When was the definition of value judgement first used?
"The formalist definition is that the history of ""literature"" foregrounds poetic effects; it is the ""literariness"" or ""poeticity"" of literature that distinguishes it from ordinary speech or other kinds of writing (e"	A definition of literature that incorporates style and the poetic nature of prose is what?
Poetry is a form of literary art which uses aesthetic and rhythmic qualities of language to evoke meanings in addition to, or in place of, prosaic ostensible meaning	What elements of language make for poetic literature?
Drama is literature intended for performance	Literature intended for performance is what?
Greek drama exemplifies the earliest form of drama of which we have substantial knowledge	The earliest form of drama we know of was part of what culture?
” Literature in all its forms can be seen as written records, whether the literature itself be factual or fictional, it is still quite possible to decipher facts through things like characters’ actions and words or the authors’ style of writing and the intent behind the words	Literature, regardless of how the definition is applied, can be interpreted as what?
As a more urban culture developed, academies provided a means of transmission for speculative and philosophical literature in early civilizations, resulting in the prevalence of literature in Ancient China, Ancient India, Persia and Ancient Greece and Rome	What are some classical societies whose literature is still studied today?
In ancient China, early literature was primarily focused on philosophy, historiography, military science, agriculture, and poetry	Subjects featured in Ancient Chinese literature include what?
Early genres included drama, fables, sutras and epic poetry	What were some different genres that emerged from ancient India's oral literary traditions?
In ancient Greece, the epics of Homer, who wrote the Iliad and the Odyssey, and Hesiod, who wrote Works and Days and Theogony, are some of the earliest, and most influential, of Ancient Greek literature	What two epic narratives were written by Homer?
Roman histories and biographies anticipated the extensive mediaeval literature of lives of saints and miraculous chronicles, but the most characteristic form of the Middle Ages was the romance, an adventurous and sometimes magical narrative with strong popular appeal	Much medieval literature was influenced by the works of what classic culture?
The inevitable reaction was the explosion of Romanticism in the later 18th century which reclaimed the imaginative and fantastical bias of old romances and folk-literature and asserted the primacy of individual experience and emotion	What literary movement in the 1700s recalled the fantastical literature of medieval times?
Genre fiction also showed it could question reality in its 20th century forms, in spite of its fixed formulas, through the enquiries of the skeptical detective and the alternative realities of science fiction	What sub-group of literature emerged in the 20th century?
"As advances and specialization have made new scientific research inaccessible to most audiences, the ""literary"" nature of science writing has become less pronounced over the last two centuries"	What two elements have reduced the literary nature of scientific journals?
Philosophy has become an increasingly academic discipline	What classic area of study is now mostly reserved for academic consideration?
Literature allows readers to access intimate emotional aspects of a person’s character that would not be obvious otherwise	Literature gives the reader insights into what areas of its characters?
This can be understood in the sense that literature unites a large community by provoking universal emotions	How does literature unite members of a society?
Maslow’s ‘‘Third Force Psychology Theory’’ even allows literary analysts to critically understand how characters reflect the culture and the history in which they are contextualized	"Who conceived of ""The Third Force Psychology Theory?"""
A significant portion of historical writing ranks as literature, particularly the genre known as creative nonfiction, as can a great deal of journalism, such as literary journalism	What is literary historical writing sometimes called?
Some writings of Plato and Aristotle, the law tables of Hammurabi of Babylon, or even the early parts of the Bible could be seen as legal literature	What Babylonian ruler created formal law tables?
A literary technique or literary device can be used by authors in order to enhance the written framework of a piece of literature, and produce specific effects	Literary devices are employed for what reason?
Ibn Sina created an extensive corpus of works during what is commonly known as the Islamic Golden Age, in which the translations of Greco-Roman, Persian, and Indian texts were studied extensively	What was the term used to describe the age in which Ibn Sina created a big body of work?
Philosophy, Fiqh and theology were further developed, most noticeably by Avicenna and his opponents	What was one subject that Avicenna further developed?
 980 in Afšana, a village near Bukhara , the capital of the Samanids, a Persian dynasty in Central Asia and Greater Khorasan	What present-day country was Avicenna born in?
1169) considered Avicenna to be a follower of the Brethren of Purity	What secret society was Avicenna considered to be a follower of?
According to his autobiography, Avicenna had memorised the entire Quran by the age of 10	What had Avicenna memorized by the age of 10?
As a teenager, he was greatly troubled by the Metaphysics of Aristotle, which he could not understand until he read al-Farabi's commentary on the work	What text could Avicenna not understand?
He turned to medicine at 16, and not only learned medical theory, but also by gratuitous attendance of the sick had, according to his own account, discovered new methods of treatment	At what age did Avicenna turn to away from philosophy?
Ibn Sina's first appointment was that of physician to the emir, Nuh II, who owed him his recovery from a dangerous illness 	Who was Ibn Sina's first appontment?
When Ibn Sina was 22 years old, he lost his father	At what age did Avicenna lose his father?
Ibn Sina subsequently settled at Rey, in the vicinity of modern Tehran, the home town of Rhazes; where Majd Addaula, a son of the last Buwayhid emir, was nominal ruler under the regency of his mother 	What city did Ibn Sina settle in?
Meanwhile, he had written to Abu Ya'far, the prefect of the dynamic city of Isfahan, offering his services	Where did Ibn Sina hope to flee to after Hamadan?
Most of his works were written in Arabic – then the language of science in the Middle East – and some in Persian	In what language was most of Ibn Sina's works written in?
"His Book of Healing became available in Europe in partial Latin translation some fifty years after its composition, under the title Sufficientia, and some authors have identified a ""Latin Avicennism"" as flourishing for some time, paralleling the more influential Latin Averroism, but suppressed by the Parisian decrees of 1210 and 1215"	Ibn Sina's Book of Healing was partially available in what language?
Early Islamic philosophy and Islamic metaphysics, imbued as it is with Islamic theology, distinguishes more clearly than Aristotelianism between essence and existence	What does Islamic philosophy more clearly explain than Aristotelianism?
Following al-Farabi's lead, Avicenna initiated a full-fledged inquiry into the question of being, in which he distinguished between essence and existence 	What did Avicenna start an inquiry into?
Avicenna's consideration of the essence-attributes question may be elucidated in terms of his ontological analysis of the modalities of being; namely impossibility, contingency, and necessity	What is one modality of being that Avicenna analyzed?
The Necessary exists 'due-to-Its-Self', and has no quiddity/essence other than existence 	The necessary exists due to what?
Avicenna was a devout Muslim and sought to reconcile rational philosophy with Islamic theology	What religion was Avicenna?
There are occasional brief hints and allusions in his longer works however that Avicenna considered philosophy as the only sensible way to distinguish real prophecy from illusion	What did Avicenna consider to be the only way to distinguish real philosophy from illusion?
Later interpretations of Avicenna's philosophy split into three different schools; those who continued to apply his philosophy as a system to interpret later political events and scientific advances; those who considered Avicenna's theological works in isolation from his wider philosophical concerns; and those who selectively used parts of his philosophy to support their own attempts to gain greater spiritual insights through a variety of mystical means	Which interpretation of Avicenna's work was more taught in Islamic schools?
"While he was imprisoned in the castle of Fardajan near Hamadhan, Avicenna wrote his famous ""Floating Man"" – literally falling man – thought experiment to demonstrate human self-awareness and the substantiality and immateriality of the soul"	Where was Avicenna once imprisoned?
However, Avicenna posited the brain as the place where reason interacts with sensation	Where did reason interact with sensation according to Avicenna?
He discusses Aristotle's Posterior Analytics and significantly diverged from it on several points	What philosopher did Avicenna discuss in his The Book of Healing text?
An early formal system of temporal logic was studied by Avicenna	What was a subject that Avicenna studied, but did not develop a theory on?
Avicenna's legacy in classical psychology is primarily embodied in the Kitab al-nafs parts of his Kitab al-shifa and Kitab al-najat 	What is Avicenna's Book of Healing referred to in Arabic?
Avicenna grounds his psychology on physiology, which means his account of the soul is one that deals almost entirely with the natural science of the body and its abilities of perception	What does Avicenna ground his psychology on?
Avicenna's astronomical writings had some influence on later writers, although in general his work could be considered less developed than Alhazen or Al-Biruni	What Muslim astronomer did Avicenna influence?
Liber Aboali Abincine de Anima in arte Alchemiae was the most influential, having influenced later medieval chemists and alchemists such as Vincent of Beauvais	What work by Avicenna is thought to be a fake?
"George Sarton, the author of The History of Science, described Ibn Sīnā as ""one of the greatest thinkers and medical scholars in history"" and called him ""the most famous scientist of Islam and one of the most famous of all races, places, and times"	Who said that Ibn Sina was one of the greatest thinkers?
In modern Iran, he is considered a national icon, and is often regarded as one of the greatest Persians to have ever lived	In what modern country is Avicenna considered an icon?
In 1980, the Soviet Union, which then ruled his birthplace Bukhara, celebrated the thousandth anniversary of Avicenna's birth by circulating various commemorative stamps with artistic illustrations, and by erecting a bust of Avicenna based on anthropological research by Soviet scholars	What superpower in 1980 created a stamp in honor of Avicenna?
In March 2008, it was announced that Avicenna's name would be used for new Directories of education institutions for health care professionals, worldwide	When was it announced that Avicenna would have medical directories named after him?
"The soviet film ""Youth of Genius"" , filmed and studios Uzbekfilm and Tajikfilm, dedicated to children and youth years Avicenna"	What movie was made about Avicenna's younger years?
Ibn Sīnā wrote at least one treatise on alchemy, but several others have been falsely attributed to him	What is a rare discipline that Avicenna worked on?
, take a poetical form 	Who published Avicenna's poem on logic?
Chinese characters are logograms used in the writing of Chinese and some other Asian languages	What are logograms used in the writing of Chinese?
Chinese characters number in the tens of thousands, though most of them are minor graphic variants encountered only in historical texts	What number in the tens of thousands?
Most modern Chinese dictionaries and Chinese dictionaries sold to English speakers use the traditional radical-based character index in a section at the front, while the main body of the dictionary arranges the main character entries alphabetically according to their pinyin spelling	What use the traditional radical-based character index?
Classical Chinese) most words were monosyllabic and there was a close correspondence between characters and words	What are most words in Old Chinese?
Modern Chinese has many homophones; thus the same spoken syllable may be represented by many characters, depending on meaning	What has many homophones?
Chinese characters represent words of the language using several strategies	What represent words of the language using several strategies?
Semantic-phonetic compounds or pictophonetic compounds are by far the most numerous characters	What are the most numerous characters?
The right-hand side in each case is a phonetic indicator	What side is a phonetic indicator located on?
"Occasionally a bisyllabic word is written with two characters that contain the same radical, as in 蝴蝶 húdié ""butterfly"", where both characters have the insect radical 虫"	What is occasionally written with two characters that contain the same radical?
In recent decades, a series of inscribed graphs and pictures have been found at Neolithic sites in China, including Jiahu (c	What may have been found at Neolithic sites in China in recent decades? 
The earliest confirmed evidence of the Chinese script yet discovered is the body of inscriptions on oracle bones from the late Shang dynasty (c	What was the earliest confirmed evidence of the Chinese script?
As early as the Shang dynasty, oracle-bone script coexisted as a simplified form alongside the normal script of bamboo books , as well as the extra-elaborate pictorial forms found on many bronzes	What existed as early as the Shang dynasty?
Meanwhile, other scripts had evolved, especially in the eastern and southern areas during the late Zhou dynasty, including regional forms, such as the gǔwén of the eastern Warring States preserved as variant forms in the Han dynasty character dictionary Shuowen Jiezi, as well as decorative forms such as bird and insect scripts	What has evolved over time?
Seal script, which had evolved slowly in the state of Qin during the Eastern Zhou dynasty, became standardized and adopted as the formal script for all of China in the Qin dynasty , and was still widely used for decorative engraving and seals in the Han dynasty period	What has evolved slowly in the State of of Qin?
Contrary to the popular belief of there being only one script per period, there were in fact multiple scripts in use during the Han period	Were multiple scripts used during the Han period?
By the late Eastern Han period, an early form of semi-cursive script appeared, developing out of a cursively written form of neo-clerical script and simple cursive	What appeared at the end of the late Eastern Han period?
Regular script has been attributed to Zhong Yao, of the Eastern Han to Cao Wei period (c	What had been linked to Zhong Yao?
It was not until the Northern and Southern dynasties that regular script rose to dominant status	What were the North and South considered as?
The right half of the character also contains four strokes, so the user locates the number 4, and turns to the page number given	What contains four strokes?
Chinese character dictionaries often allow users to locate entries in several ways	What often allow users to locate entries in several ways?
While new characters can be easily coined by writing on paper, they are difficult to represent on a computer – they must generally be represented as a picture, rather than as text – which presents a significant barrier to their use or widespread adoption	What can be easily coined by writing on paper?
New characters can in principle be coined at any time, just as new words can be, but they may not be adopted	What can be coined at any time?
In addition, there are a number of dialect characters that are not used in formal written Chinese but represent colloquial terms in non-Mandarin varieties of Chinese	What are not used in formal written Chinese?
The Chinese Standard Interchange Code —the official national encoding standard—supports 48,027 characters, while the most widely used encoding scheme, BIG-5, supports only 13,053	What supports 48,027 characters?
In China, which uses simplified Chinese characters, the Xiàndài Hànyǔ Chángyòng Zìbiǎo lists 2,500 common characters and 1,000 less-than-common characters, while the Xiàndài Hànyǔ Tōngyòng Zìbiǎo lists 7,000 characters, including the 3,500 characters already listed above	What country uses simplified Chinese characters?
"The traditional 3rd-person pronoun tā , which is written with the ""person radical"", illustrates modifying significs to form new characters"	What is written in modern usage?
Even the Zhonghua Zihai does not include characters in the Chinese family of scripts created to represent non-Chinese languages	What does not include characters in the Chinese family?
The total number of Chinese characters from past to present remains unknowable because new ones are developed all the time – for instance, brands may create new characters when none of the existing ones allow for the intended meaning	What remains unknowable?
"One of the most complex characters found in modern Chinese dictionaries is 齉 , pictured below, middle image), meaning ""snuffle"" , with ""just"" thirty-six strokes"	What is one of the most complex characters in modern Chinese dictionaries?
There are also some extremely complex characters which have understandably become rather rare	What have become more rare?
One man who has encountered this problem is Taiwanese politician Yu Shyi-kun, due to the rarity of the last character in his name	Who is a Taiwanese politician?
The use of such contractions is as old as Chinese characters themselves, and they have frequently been found in religious or ritual use	What have been constantly found in religious or ritual use?
Modern examples particularly include Chinese characters for SI units	What are disyllabic and usually written with two characters?
Since polysyllabic characters are often non-standard, they are often excluded incharcter dictionaries	What characters are often non-standard?
In certain cases compound words and set phrases may be contracted into single characters	What may be contracted into single characters?
Chinese characters are primarily morphosyllabic, meaning that most Chinese morphemes are monosyllabic and are written with a single character, though in modern Chinese most words are disyllabic and dimorphemic, consisting of two syllables, each of which is a morpheme	What are primarily morphosyllabic?
In addition to strictness in character size and shape, Chinese characters are written with very precise rules	What are written with very precise rules?
Just as Roman letters have a characteristic shape , Chinese characters occupy a more or less square area in which the components of every character are written to fit in order to maintain a uniform size and shape, especially with small printed characters in Ming and sans-serif styles	What have a characteristic shape?
Regular script typefaces are also commonly used, but not as common as Ming or sans-serif typefaces for body text	What are commonly used?
The art of writing Chinese characters is called Chinese calligraphy	What is the art of writing Chinese characters?
"The cursive script , cǎoshū, literally ""grass script"") is used informally"	What script is used informally?
The seal script, as the name suggests, is now used only in artistic seals	What script is only used in artistic seals?
"The characters in the Hong Kong standard and the Kangxi Dictionary are also known as ""Traditional,"" but are not shown"	"What are also known as ""traditional""?"
In the years after World War II, the Japanese government also instituted a series of orthographic reforms	What did the Japanese government institute? 
The majority of simplified characters are drawn from conventional abbreviated forms, or ancient standard forms	What are drawn from conventional abbreviated forms?
The People's Republic of China issued its first round of official character simplifications in two documents, the first in 1956 and the second in 1964	Who issued its first round of character simplifications in two documents?
Caoshu, cursive written text, almost always includes character simplification, and simplified forms have always existed in print, albeit not for the most formal works	What almost always includes character simplification?
The use of traditional Chinese characters versus simplified Chinese characters varies greatly, and can depend on both the local customs and the medium	What varies greatly?
According to the Rev	Who is John Gulick?
Although Chinese characters in Vietnam are now limited to ceremonial uses, they were once in widespread use	What is now limited to ceremonial uses?
After Kim Jong Il, the second ruler of North Korea, died in December 2011, Kim Jong Un stepped up and began mandating the use of Hanja as a source of definition for the Korean language	When did the second ruler of North Korea pass away?
When learning how to write hanja, students are taught to memorize the native Korean pronunciation for the hanja's meaning and the Sino-Korean pronunciations for each hanja respectively so that students know what the syllable and meaning is for a particular hanja	What are students taught to memorize?
Hanja are still used to some extent, particularly in newspapers, weddings, place names and calligraphy 	What is still being used according to experts?
In times past, until the 15th century, in Korea, Literary Chinese was the dominant form of written communication, prior to the creation of hangul, the Korean alphabet	What was the dominant form of written communication?
Written Japanese also includes a pair of syllabaries known as kana, derived by simplifying Chinese characters selected to represent syllables of Japanese	What also includes a pair of syllabaries?
In the 1930s and 1940s, discussions on character simplification took place within the Kuomintang government, and many Chinese intellectuals and writers have long maintained that character simplification would help boost literacy in China	What has been promoted as a justification for spelling reforms?
The first known European explorer to reach Bermuda was Spanish sea captain Juan de Bermúdez in 1503, after whom the islands are named	The first known European explorer to reach Bermuda was of what nationality?
Its spin-off, the Somers Isles Company, took over in 1615 and managed the colony until 1684	What spin-off company took over operations in Bermuda in 1615?
Bermuda's economy is based on offshore insurance and reinsurance, and tourism, the two largest economic sectors	What two business drive Bermuda's economy?
Bermuda is a group of low-forming volcanoes located in the Atlantic Ocean, near the western edge of the Sargasso Sea, roughly 578 nautical miles ) east-southeast of Cape Hatteras on the Outer Banks of North Carolina and about 594 nautical miles ) southeast of Martha's Vineyard of Massachusetts	Bermuda is located in what ocean?
The top of the seamount has gone through periods of complete submergence, during which its limestone cap was formed by marine organisms, and during the Ice Ages the entire caldera was above sea level, forming an island of approximately two hundred square miles	What is the limestone cap of the seamount made from?
Despite the small land mass, place names are repeated; there are, for example, two islands named Long Island, three bays named Long Bay , two Horseshoe Bays , there are two roads through cuttings called Khyber Pass (one in Warwick, the other in St	"In the Bermuda land mass, how many islands are named ""Long Island""?"
Many of Bermuda's hotels are located along the south shore of the island	What directional shore of Bermuda is home to the majority of its hotels?
The only indigenous mammals of Bermuda are five species of bats, all of which are also found in the eastern United States: Lasionycteris noctivagans, Lasiurus borealis, Lasiurus cinereus, Lasiurus seminolus and Perimyotis subflavus	The only indigenous mammals of Bermuda are five species of what animal?
Bermuda has a diverse population including both those with relatively deep roots in Bermuda extending back for centuries, and newer communities whose ancestry results from recent immigration, especially from Britain, North America, the West Indies, and the Portuguese Atlantic islands , although these groups are steadily merging	Where are the largest group of non-native people in Bermuda from?
There is effectively no ethnic distinction between black and white Bermudians, other than those characterising recent immigrant communities	There is no distinction between what two ethnicities of Bermudians?
"The majority of blacks in Bermuda can be termed ""Bermudian blacks"", whose ancestry dates back centuries between the 17th century and the end of slavery in 1834, Bermuda's black population was self-sustaining, with its growth resulting largely from natural expansion"	What term is used to refer to the majority of black people in Bermuda?
The first blacks to arrive in Bermuda in any numbers were free blacks from Spanish-speaking areas of the West Indies, and most of the remainder were recently enslaved Africans captured from the Spanish and Portuguese	Why is the black population in Bermuda different from that in the British West Indies and the United States?
Most of Bermuda's black population trace some of their ancestry to Native Americans, although awareness of this is largely limited to St David's Islanders and most who have such ancestry are unaware of it	What is one group that Bermuda's black population can link some of their ancestry to?
Bermuda's culture is a mixture of the various sources of its population: Native American, Spanish-Caribbean, English, Irish, and Scots cultures were evident in the 17th century, and became part of the dominant British culture	What is considered the primary language of Bermuda?
The first notable, and historically important, book credited to a Bermudian was The History of Mary Prince, a slave narrative by Mary Prince	What historical significance can the book The History of Mary Prince claim?
Bermuda watercolours painted by local artists are sold at various galleries	What type of painting are Bermuda artists known for?
Bermuda was discovered in 1503 by Spanish explorer Juan de Bermúdez	Who is credited with discovering Bermuda?
Two years later, a flotilla of seven ships left England under the Company's Admiral, Sir George Somers, and the new Governor of Jamestown, Sir Thomas Gates, with several hundred settlers, food and supplies to relieve the colony of Jamestown	Sir George Somers embarked on a mission to do what?
Among them was John Rolfe, whose wife and child died and were buried in Bermuda	Who was one of the original survivor's to sail on to Jamestown.
Because of its limited land area, Bermuda has had difficulty with over-population	What is a major reason that Bermuda has problems with overpopulation?
In the 17th century, the Somers Isles Company suppressed shipbuilding, as it needed Bermudians to farm to generate income from the land	Why did the Somers Isles Company decide to surpress shipbuilding?
The end of the war, however, was to cause profound change in Bermuda, though some of those changes would take decades to crystallise	What event caused major changes in Bermuda?
The war had removed Bermuda's primary trading partners, the American colonies, from the empire, and dealt a harsh blow to Bermuda's merchant shipping trade	Who was Bermuda's main trading partner before the war?
"The most famous escapee was the Boer prisoner of war Captain Fritz Joubert Duquesne who was serving a life sentence for ""conspiracy against the British government and on espionage"	Why is Captain Fritz Joubert Duquesne famous?
After several failed attempts, in 1930 the first aeroplane reached Bermuda	When did the first aeroplane reach Bermuda?
In 1937, Imperial Airways and Pan American World Airways began operating scheduled flying-boat airline services from New York and Baltimore to Darrell's Island, Bermuda	What did Imperial Airways and Pan American begin scheduling in 1937?
Executive authority in Bermuda is vested in the monarch and is exercised on her behalf by the Governor	The Governor of Bermuda gets his authority from whom?
The Constitution of Bermuda came into force on 1 June 1967; it was amended in 1989 and 2003	When was the Constitution of Bermuda enforced?
The United States maintains the largest diplomatic mission in Bermuda, comprising both the United States Consulate and the US Customs and Border Protection Services at the L	Who has the largest accredited diplomats in Bermuda?
On 11 June 2009, four Uyghurs who had been held in the United States Guantánamo Bay detention camp, in Cuba, were transferred to Bermuda	Where were the Uyghurs transferred from?
The OBA government simultaneously introduced a bill to permit Civil Unions	What occurred in February of 2016?
Other nearby nations or territories, such as the United States, are not members 	"Who has ""observer status"" to CARICOM?"
Bermuda was colonised by the English as an extension of Virginia and has long had close ties with the US Atlantic Seaboard and Canadian Maritimes as well as the UK	Why did the English originally colonize Bermuda?
The late PLP leader, Dame Lois Browne-Evans, and her Trinidadian-born husband, John Evans , were prominent members of this group	Who are two prominent members of the PLP?
"Once known as ""the Gibraltar of the West"" and ""Fortress Bermuda"", Bermuda today is defended by forces of the British government"	Due to the British goverment's defense forces, what are two nicknames for bermuda?
In May 1940, the US requested base rights in Bermuda from the United Kingdom, but British Prime Minister Winston Churchill was initially unwilling to accede to the American request without getting something in return	What did the US ask of Britain in May 1940?
Construction began in 1941 of two airbases consisting of 5	What did the US begin building in 1941?
The original NAS Bermuda on the west side of the island, a seaplane base until the mid-1960s, was designated as the Naval Air Station Bermuda Annex	What was the NAS primarily a base for?
Bermudians served in the British armed forces during both World War I and World War II	When did Bermudians serve in the British Armed forces?
In 1970 the country switched its currency from the Bermudian pound to the Bermudian dollar, which is pegged at par with the US dollar	What was the new currency in Bermuda as of 1970?
Bermuda is an offshore financial centre, which results from its minimal standards of business regulation/laws and direct taxation on personal or corporate income	Why is Bermuda considered an offshore financial center?
The Exchange specialises in listing and trading of capital market instruments such as equities, debt issues, funds and depository receipt programmes	What does the Exchange specialize in?
Many sports popular today were formalised by British Public schools and universities in the 19th century	Who created and popularized many of the sports that we love today?
The professionals soon displaced the amateur ex-Public schoolboys	What happened to the Public schoolboys in these sports?
Bermuda's national cricket team participated in the Cricket World Cup 2007 in the West Indies	What Bermuda sport team participated in the 2007 world cup?
At the 2004 Summer Olympics, Bermuda competed in sailing, athletics, swimming, diving, triathlon and equestrian events	What events did Bermuda compete in at the 2004 Summer Olympics?
The Bermuda Rugby Union team won the 2011 Caribbean championships, defeating Guyana in the final	Who won the 2011 Caribbean championships?
The modern state originated from British colonial rule beginning in the 19th century, and the merging of the Southern Nigeria Protectorate and Northern Nigeria Protectorate in 1914	When did the Southern and Northern Nigeria Protectorates merge?
"Nigeria is often referred to as the ""Giant of Africa"", owing to its large population and economy"	Which country is called the 'Giant of Africa'?
As of 2015, Nigeria is the world's 20th largest economy, worth more than $500 billion and $1 trillion in terms of nominal GDP and purchasing power parity respectively	What is Nigeria's 2015 GDP?
Since 2002, the North East of the country has seen sectarian violence by Boko Haram, an Islamist movement that seeks to abolish the secular system of government and establish Sharia law	When did Boko Haram become active in Nigeria?
The name Nigeria was taken from the Niger River running through the country	What is Nigeria named after?
The Kingdom of Nri of the Igbo people consolidated in the 10th century and continued until it lost its sovereignty to the British in 1911	Which tribe ran the city of Nri?
For centuries, various peoples in modern-day Nigeria traded overland with traders from North Africa	What region has Nigeria traded with for centuries?
With rising anti-slavery sentiment at home and changing economic realities, Great Britain outlawed the international slave trade in 1807	When did Britain outlaw slave trade?
In 1885, British claims to a West African sphere of influence received recognition from other European nations at the Berlin Conference	Where was Britain's claim to West Africa recognized in 1885?
Christian missions established Western educational institutions in the Protectorates	What religion built Western schools in Nigeria?
Nigeria gained independence from the United Kingdom as a Commonwealth Realm on 1 October 1960	What was Nigeria's status after independence from the UK?
The disquilibrium and perceived corruption of the electoral and political process led, in 1966, to back-to-back military coups	In what year were there two military coups in Nigeria?
In May 1967, the Eastern Region declared independence as a state called the Republic of Biafra, under the leadership of Lt	What did Eastern Nigeria want to call itself as an independent nation?
During the oil boom of the 1970s, Nigeria joined OPEC and the huge revenue generated made the economy richer	Which oil group did Nigeria join?
Beginning in 1979, Nigerians participated in a brief return to democracy when Olusegun Obasanjo transferred power to the civilian regime of Shehu Shagari	Which Nigerian leader transferred power in 1979?
The new head of state, Ibrahim Babangida, declared himself president and commander in chief of the armed forces and the ruling Supreme Military Council	Which Nigerian leader decided Nigeria would return to democracy in 1990?
After Babangida survived an abortive coup, he pushed back the promised return to democracy to 1992	To when did Babangida delay the return to democracy?
Nigeria regained democracy in 1999 when it elected Olusegun Obasanjo, the former military head of state, as the new President of Nigeria	When did Nigeria regain democracy?
Goodluck Jonathan served as Nigeria's president till 16 April 2011, when a new presidential election in Nigeria was conducted	Who won the 2011 election?
Nigeria is a Federal Republic modelled after the United States, with executive power exercised by the president	What is Nigeria's form of government?
Nigeria's three largest ethnic groups have maintained historical preeminence in Nigerian politics; competition amongst these three groups has fuelled corruption and graft	What are Nigeria's 3 biggest ethnic groups?
The major political parties at that time included the then ruling People's Democratic Party of Nigeria, which maintains 223 seats in the House and 76 in the Senate (61	How many seats does the People's Democratic Party of Nigeria have in the House?
Nigeria backed the African National Congress by taking a committed tough line with regard to the South African government and their military actions in southern Africa	What group did Nigeria support against white governments in Southern Africa?
The far south is defined by its tropical rainforest climate, where annual rainfall is 60 to 80 inches a year	How many inches of rain does southern Nigeria get each year?
The areas surrounding Calabar, Cross River State, also in this forest, are believed to contain the world's largest diversity of butterflies	What does the Cross River State area of Nigeria have the world's largest variety of?
Everything in between the far south and the far north is savannah 	What type of vegetation is in central Nigeria?
Waste management presents problems in a mega city like Lagos and other major Nigerian cities which are linked with economic development, population growth and the inability of municipal councils to manage the resulting rise in industrial and domestic waste	What is the largest Nigerian city?
Nigeria is divided into thirty-six states and one Federal Capital Territory, which are further sub-divided into 774 Local Government Areas 	How many states does Nigeria have?
Nigeria was ranked 30th in the world in terms of GDP in 2012	Where did Nigeria's 2012 GDP rank?
The Niger Delta Nembe Creek Oil field was discovered in 1973 and produces from middle Miocene deltaic sandstone-shale in an anticline structural trap at a depth of 2–4 km	When was the Niger Delta Nembe Creek Oil field found?
The United States accounts for the largest portion of official remittances, followed by the United Kingdom, Italy, Canada, Spain and France	Which country has Nigerians sending the most money home?
It currently has an indigenous vehicle manufacturing company, Innoson Motors, which manufactures Rapid Transit Buses, Trucks and SUVs with an upcoming introduction of Cars	What is Nigeria's local vehicle manufacturer?
The satellite was launched from Russia on 27 September 2003	When did Nigeria launch its first satellite?
NigeriaSat-2, Nigeria's second satellite, was built as a high-resolution earth satellite by Surrey Space Technology Limited, a United Kingdom-based satellite technology company	What was Nigeria's second satellite called?
NigComSat-1, a Nigerian satellite built in 2004, was Nigeria's third satellite and Africa's first communication satellite	What was Nigeria's third satellite called?
NigComSat-1R was also a DFH-4 satellite, and the replacement for the failed NigComSat-1 was successfully launched into orbit by China in Xichang on December 19, 2011	When was Nigeria's fourth satellite launched?
The United Nations estimates that the population in 2009 was at 154,729,000, distributed as 51	What was Nigeria's population in 2009?
Even though most ethnic groups prefer to communicate in their own languages, English as the official language is widely used for education, business transactions and for official purposes	What is the official language of Nigeria?
Nigerian Pidgin English, often known simply as 'Pidgin' or 'Broken' , is also a popular lingua franca, though with varying regional influences on dialect and slang	What is Nigerian Pidgin English often called?
Nigeria is a religiously diverse society, with Islam and Christianity being the most widely professed religions	What are the most popular religions in Nigeria?
The vast majority of Muslims in Nigeria are Sunni belonging to Maliki school of jurisprudence; however, a sizeable minority also belongs to Shafi madhhab	What type of Islam is most common in Nigeria?
According to a 2001 report from The World Factbook by CIA, about 50% of Nigeria's population is Muslim, 40% are Christians and 10% adhere to local religions	In 2001, what percent of Nigeria's population was Muslim?
Among Christians, the Pew Research survey found that 74% were Protestant, 25% were Catholic, and 1% belonged to other Christian denominations, including a small Orthodox Christian community	How many Nigerian Christians are Protestant?
Leading Protestant churches in the country include the Church of Nigeria of the Anglican Communion, the Assemblies of God Church, the Nigerian Baptist Convention and The Synagogue, Church Of All Nations Since the 1990s, there has been significant growth in many other churches, particularly the evangelical Protestant ones	When did many newer churches start growing in Nigeria?
Nigeria has been reorganising its health system since the Bamako Initiative of 1987, which formally promoted community-based methods of increasing accessibility of drugs and health care services to the population, in part by implementing user fees	When did the Bamako Initiative begin?
62 years on average according to CIA, and just over half the population have access to potable water and appropriate sanitation; As of 2010, the Infant mortality is 8	How much of the Nigerian population has access to clean water?
Nigeria was the only country in Africa to have never eradicated polio, which it periodically exported to other African countries; Polio was cut 98% between 2009 and 2010	What was the last African country to still have significant Polio problems?
Education in Nigeria is overseen by the Ministry of Education	What department runs Nigeria's schools?
Nigeria is home to a substantial network of organised crime, active especially in drug trafficking	What is Nigeria's most popular organized-crime activity?
"Internationally, Nigeria is infamous for a form of bank fraud dubbed 419, a type of advance fee fraud along with the ""Nigerian scam"", a form of confidence trick practised by individuals and criminal syndicates"	What law is the Nigerian 419 scam nicknamed after?
It was ranked 143 out of 182 countries in Transparency International's 2011 Corruption Perceptions Index; however, it improved to 136th position in 2014	In 2011 rankings, how bad was Nigeria's corruption ranking?
Although Nigerian films have been produced since the 1960s, the country's film industry has been aided by the rise of affordable digital filming and editing technologies	When did the Nigerian film industry begin?
They won the African Cup of Nations in 1980, 1994, and 2013, and have also hosted the U-17 & U-20 World Cup	Which years did Nigeria win the African Cup of Nations?
The nation's cadet team from Japan '93 produced some international players notably Nwankwo Kanu, a two-time African Footballer of the year who won the European Champions League with Ajax Amsterdam and later played with Inter Milan, Arsenal, West Bromwich Albion and Portsmouth	Nwankwo Kanu won what honor twice?
Nigeria's human rights record remains poor; According to the US Department of State, the most significant human rights problems are: use of excessive force by security forces; impunity for abuses by security forces; arbitrary arrests; prolonged pretrial detention; judicial corruption and executive influence on the judiciary; rape, torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment of prisoners, detainees and suspects; harsh and life‑threatening prison and detention centre conditions; human trafficking for the purpose of prostitution and forced labour; societal violence and vigilante killings; child labour, child abuse and child sexual exploitation; female genital mutilation ; domestic violence; discrimination based on sex, ethnicity, region and religion	How are Nigerian prisoners mistreated?
Although there is some evidence of earlier inhabitation in the region of Utrecht, dating back to the Stone Age (app	How far back does evidence of inhabitation date back
Around 275 the Romans could no longer maintain the northern border and Utrecht was abandoned	When did the Romans leave Utrecht
By the mid-7th century, English and Irish missionaries set out to convert the Frisians	Who tried to convert Frisians
When the Frankish rulers established the system of feudalism, the Bishops of Utrecht came to exercise worldly power as prince-bishops	What hapend when Frankish rulers established the system of feudalism
The most dominant of these was the Cathedral of Saint Martin, inside the old Roman fortress	What was the Most dominant Cathedral in Utrecht
The growing town Utrecht was granted city rights by Henry V in 1122	Who granted Utrecht city rights 
In 1528 the bishop lost secular power over both Neder- and Oversticht – which included the city of Utrecht – to Charles V, Holy Roman Emperor	What year did the bishop lose power 
To quell uprisings Charles V was struggling to exert his power over the citizens of the city, who had struggled to gain a certain level of independence from the bishops and were not willing to cede this to their new lord	Why was the transition to a new union difficult 
In 1579 the northern seven provinces signed the Union of Utrecht, in which they decided to join forces against Spanish rule	What was signed in 1579 
In 1674, only two years after the French left, the centre of Utrecht was struck by a tornado	In 1674 what hit Utrecht 
In the early 19th century, the role of Utrecht as a fortified town had become obsolete	What hapend in the early 19th century
The area surrounding Utrecht Centraal railway station and the station itself were developed following modernist ideas of the 1960s, in a brutalist style	What was railway area developed into 
About 38% percent of its population either earns a minimum income or is dependent on social welfare 	What Socio economic problems does Utrecht face 
The smaller Utrecht agglomeration of continuously built up areas counts some 420,000 inhabitants and includes Nieuwegein, IJsselstein and Maarssen	Least populates areas of Utrecht 
Utrecht's cityscape is dominated by the Dom Tower, the tallest belfry in the Netherlands and originally part of the Cathedral of Saint Martin	what dominates the cityscape
Another landmark is the old centre and the canal structure in the inner city	What is a landmark in the city 
Utrecht Centraal is the main railway station of Utrecht	What is the main railway station 
The main local and regional bus station of Utrecht is located adjacent to Utrecht Centraal railway station, at the East and West entrances	Where is the bus station located 
There are also barrow bikes, for carrying shopping or small children	What is a barrow bikes use 
Two of the most important major roads serve the city of Utrecht: the A12 and A2 motorways connect Amsterdam, Arnhem, The Hague and Maastricht, as well as Belgium and Germany	What countries do the A12 and A2 connect
The economy of Utrecht depends for a large part on the several large institutions located in the city	What does Utrecht's economy depend on 
A large indoor shopping centre Hoog Catharijne is located between Utrecht Centraal railway station and the city centre	What is the name of the large shopping center 
According to Shanghai Jiaotong University's university ranking in 2014 it is the 57th best university in the world	what is shanghai jiaotong rated 
Utrecht city has an active cultural life, and in the Netherlands is second only to Amsterdam	Cultural life in Utrecht is second to 
Training of artists is done at the Utrecht School of the Arts	Where are young artist trained 
To promote culture Utrecht city organizes cultural Sundays	What does the city host on Sundays 
Utrecht's waterways are used by several rowing clubs	What Utrecht waterways host to 
"In addition to stipulations of non-aggression, the treaty included a secret protocol that divided territories of Romania, Poland, Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia, and Finland into German and Soviet ""spheres of influence"", anticipating potential ""territorial and political rearrangements"" of these countries"	The agreement between the Nazis and the Soviets split what countries up?
Of the territories of Poland annexed by the Soviet Union between 1939 and 1940, the region around Białystok and a minor part of Galicia east of the San river around Przemyśl were returned to the Polish state at the end of World War II	The regions of Białystok, Galicia and Przemyśl were returned to what country after world war II?
Moreover, facing a German military advance, Lenin and Trotsky were forced to enter into the Treaty of Brest-Litovsk, which ceded massive western Russian territories to the German Empire	What agreement gave Germany many regions of Russia in the first world war?
Moreover, the anti-Semitic Nazis associated ethnic Jews with both communism and financial capitalism, both of which they opposed	Who was to blame for communism and capitalism?
Hitler's fierce anti-Soviet rhetoric was one of the reasons why the UK and France decided that Soviet participation in the 1938 Munich Conference regarding Czechoslovakia would be both dangerous and useless	What countries prevented the Soviets from joining the Munich Conference?
Moreover, an expected British blockade in the event of war would create massive shortages for Germany in a number of key raw materials	During conflict, what would prevent transport of materials?
"The Soviet Union, which feared Western powers and the possibility of ""capitalist encirclements"", had little faith either that war could be avoided, or faith in the Polish army, and wanted nothing less than an ironclad military alliance with France and Britain that would provide a guaranteed support for a two-pronged attack on Germany; thus, Stalin's adherence to the collective security line was purely conditional"	Why did the Soviet government fear the governments of France and Britain?
Britain opposed such proposals, because they feared the Soviets' proposed language could justify a Soviet intervention in Finland and the Baltic states, or push those countries to seek closer relations with Germany	Who predicted soviet aggression in the Baltic region?
In May, Stalin replaced his Foreign Minister Maxim Litvinov, who was regarded as pro-western and who was also Jewish, with Vyacheslav Molotov, allowing the Soviet Union more latitude in discussions with more parties, not only with Britain and France	Which Soviet Foreign Minister lost his job because of his favorable attitude towards the west?
At the same time, British, French, and Soviet negotiators scheduled three-party talks on military matters to occur in Moscow in August 1939, aiming to define what the agreement would specify should be the reaction of the three powers to a German attack	In what city did the tripartite military talks occur during the month of August?
That same day, Stalin received assurance that Germany would approve secret protocols to the proposed non-aggression pact that would place half of Poland , Latvia, Estonia, Finland, and Bessarabia in the Soviets' sphere of influence	What was the German-Soviet dividing line in regards to annexing Poland?
On 22 August, one day after the talks broke down with France and Britain, Moscow revealed that Ribbentrop would visit Stalin the next day	Which Foreign Minister would agree to meet with Stalin on to sign a secret agreement? 
, to influence Lithuania	What country held the city Vilnius prior to the inter-war period? 
"So, that day, German diplomat Hans von Herwarth, whose grandmother was Jewish, informed Guido Relli, an Italian diplomat, and American chargé d'affaires Charles Bohlen on the secret protocol regarding vital interests in the countries' allotted ""spheres of influence"", without revealing the annexation rights for ""territorial and political rearrangement"""	Which diplomat leaked information about the secret agreements?
"Upon signing the pact, Molotov tried to reassure the Germans of his good intentions by commenting to journalists that ""fascism is a matter of taste"""	Who downplayed the contrast and recent past history between German and the Soviets?
"On August 25, Voroshilov told them ""n view of the changed political situation, no useful purpose can be served in continuing the conversation"	What was the response of Kliment Voroshilov in regards to further conversations with Britain and France?
"The Soviet Union assisted German air forces by allowing them to use signals broadcast by the Soviet radio station at Minsk allegedly ""for urgent aeronautical experiments"""	How did the Russians communicate to the Germans in regards to bombing civilians trying to flee cities?
The Soviets organized staged elections, the result of which was to become a legitimization of Soviet annexation of eastern Poland	Why did Soviets create fake elections in Poland?
Eleven days after the Soviet invasion of the Polish Kresy, the secret protocol of the Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact was modified by the German–Soviet Treaty of Friendship, Cooperation and Demarcation,) allotting Germany a larger part of Poland and transferring Lithuania's territory from the envisioned German sphere to the Soviets	After amending the joint agreement, who received the larger portion of Lithuania?
Simultaneously, Stalin set up a puppet government in the Finnish Democratic Republic	The Soviets took over and setup a fake government in what country?
In mid-June 1940, when international attention was focused on the German invasion of France, Soviet NKVD troops raided border posts in Lithuania, Estonia and Latvia	Who invaded the countries of Lithuania, Estonia and Latvia? 
Finally, on 26 June, four days after France sued for an armistice with the Third Reich, the Soviet Union issued an ultimatum demanding Bessarabia and, unexpectedly, Northern Bukovina from Romania	How many days after France sued for peace did the Romanians meet the requests of the USSR?
As the result of this operation in 10 regional actions about 60,000 Polish nobles, teachers, social workers, priests, judges and political activists were killed	Who were the “intelligentia?” 
They were initially gathered into massive urban ghettos, such as 380,000 held in the Warsaw Ghetto, where large numbers died under the harsh conditions therein, including 43,000 in the Warsaw Ghetto alone	How many Jews were forced to live within the Warsaw Ghetto? 
"It also covered the migration to Germany within two and a half months of ethnic Germans and German citizens in Soviet-held Baltic territories, and the migration to the Soviet Union of Baltic and ""White Russian"" ""nationals"" in German-held territories"	How long did germans have to relocate from the baltic states after the amendment of secret protocols?
"Future member of the Hollywood Ten Herbert Biberman denounced rumors as ""Fascist propaganda"""	Who was part of Hollywood Ten?
The new line—which stated that the war was unjust and imperialist—was approved by the secretariat of the Communist International on 9 September	The western communists new rhetoric was that the war was? 
"In Die Welt, a communist newspaper published in Stockholm the exiled communist leader Walter Ulbricht opposed the allies and argued: ""The German government declared itself ready for friendly relations with the Soviet Union, whereas the English–French war bloc desires a war against the socialist Soviet Union"	Who wanted war with the Soviet Union?
When a joint German–Soviet peace initiative was rejected by Britain and France on 28 September 1939, Soviet foreign policy became critical of the Allies and more pro-German in turn	Who refused a German-Soviet peace plan?
"Molotov declared in his report entitled ""On the Foreign Policy of the Soviet Union"" held on the fifth session of the Supreme Soviet, that the Western ""ruling circles"" disguise their intentions with the pretext of defending democracy against Hitlerism, declaring ""their aim in war with Germany is nothing more, nothing less than extermination of Hitlerism"	What was the title of Molotov’s report called?
Germany and the Soviet Union entered an intricate trade pact on February 11, 1940, that was over four times larger than the one the two countries had signed in August 1939	How much more expansive was the newest trade agreement?
The Soviets also helped Germany to avoid British naval blockades by providing a submarine base, Basis Nord, in the northern Soviet Union near Murmansk	What did the Germans use to avoid British blockades?
"On June 16, as the Soviets invaded Lithuania, but before they had invaded Latvia and Estonia, Ribbentrop instructed his staff ""to submit a report as soon as possible as to whether in the Baltic States a tendency to seek support from the Reich can be observed or whether an attempt was made to form a bloc"	Who wanted to know the moment an anti-german bloc was to form?
In August 1940, the Soviet Union briefly suspended its deliveries under their commercial agreement after their relations were strained following disagreement over policy in Romania, the Soviet war with Finland, Germany falling behind in its deliveries of goods under the pact and with Stalin worried that Hitler's war with the West might end quickly after France signed an armistice	Who stopped the trade because of a disagreement involving Romania?
After Germany entered a Tripartite Pact with Japan and Italy, Ribbentrop wrote to Stalin, inviting Molotov to Berlin for negotiations aimed to create a 'continental bloc' of Germany, Italy, Japan and the USSR that would oppose Britain and the USA	What countries agreed to a tripartisan agreement?
Stalin did not know that Hitler had been secretly discussing an invasion of the Soviet Union since summer 1940, and that Hitler had ordered his military in late 1940 to prepare for war in the east regardless of the parties' talks of a potential Soviet entry as a fourth Axis Power	Who was planning an invasion of the Soviet Union?
Nazi Germany terminated the Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact at 03:15 on 22 June 1941 by launching a massive attack on the Soviet positions in eastern Poland which marked the beginning of the invasion of the Soviet Union known as Operation Barbarossa	Where did the German attack on Soviet forces occur?
The German original of the secret protocols was presumably destroyed in the bombing of Germany, but in late 1943, Ribbentrop had ordered that the most secret records of the German Foreign Office from 1933 on, amounting to some 9,800 pages, be microfilmed	How many pages of secret documents were microfilmed?
Louis Post-Dispatch on May 22, 1946, in Britain by the Manchester Guardian	Who printed the secret German-Soviet treaty in Britain?
In response to the publication of the secret protocols and other secret German–Soviet relations documents in the State Department edition Nazi–Soviet Relations , Stalin published Falsifiers of History, which included the claim that, during the Pact's operation, Stalin rejected Hitler's claim to share in a division of the world, without mentioning the Soviet offer to join the Axis	What year was Joseph Stalin’s version of the pact published?
At the behest of Mikhail Gorbachev, Alexander Nikolaevich Yakovlev headed a commission investigating the existence of such a protocol	Who created an investigation into whether or not the Soviet-German Pact happened?
"Stalin immediately directed Molotov to ""purge the ministry of Jews"	Who was ordered to remove the Jews from the Ministry?
""" According to Carr, an important advantage was that ""if Soviet Russia had eventually to fight Hitler, the Western Powers would already be involved"	Edward Carr believes that in a war between Germany and the Soviet Union, who else would have been participating?
Some critics of Stalin's policy, such as the popular writer Viktor Suvorov, claim that Stalin's primary motive for signing the Soviet–German non-aggression treaty was his calculation that such a pact could result in a conflict between the capitalist countries of Western Europe	Who was skeptical of Stalin’s policies?
A capacitor is a passive two-terminal electrical component used to store electrical energy temporarily in an electric field	What was a capacitor originally known as?
When there is a potential difference across the conductors (e	When does an electric field develop across the dielectric?
In October 1745, Ewald Georg von Kleist of Pomerania, Germany, found that charge could be stored by connecting a high-voltage electrostatic generator by a wire to a volume of water in a hand-held glass jar	Who first discovered the basic properties of capacitors?
"Daniel Gralath was the first to combine several jars in parallel into a ""battery"" to increase the charge storage capacity"	Who was the first person to connect several Leyden jars in parallel?
Since the beginning of the study of electricity non conductive materials like glass, porcelain, paper and mica have been used as insulators	Besides porcelain, paper and mica, what other non conductive material was used as an insulator? 
Charles Pollak , the inventor of the first electrolytic capacitors, found out that the oxide layer on an aluminum anode remained stable in a neutral or alkaline electrolyte, even when the power was switched off	Who invented the first electrolytic capacitor?
Last but not least the electric double-layer capacitor were invented	What are electric double-layer capacitors called today?
A capacitor consists of two conductors separated by a non-conductive region	What type of area is between the two conductors in a capacitor?
Rather, one electron accumulates on the negative plate for each one that leaves the positive plate, resulting in an electron depletion and consequent positive charge on one electrode that is equal and opposite to the accumulated negative charge on the other	For each electron that departs the positive plate, how many electrons build up on the negative plate?
The simplest model capacitor consists of two thin parallel conductive plates separated by a dielectric with permittivity ε	In an ideal model of a capacitor, what is the value that describes the permittivity of the dielectric?
The maximum energy is a function of dielectric volume, permittivity, and dielectric strength	What is a function of the amount of dielectric, the strength of dielectric and its permittivity?
Some of these, such as leakage current and parasitic effects are linear, or can be assumed to be linear, and can be dealt with by adding virtual components to the equivalent circuit of the capacitor	What characteristic can leakage current and parasitic effects be assumed to have in the equation for a realistic capacitor?
For air dielectric capacitors the breakdown field strength is of the order 2 to 5 MV/m; for mica the breakdown is 100 to 300 MV/m; for oil, 15 to 25 MV/m; it can be much less when other materials are used for the dielectric	What order is the breakdown field strength for air dielectric capacitors of?
Ripple current is the AC component of an applied source whose frequency may be constant or varying	What name is given to the AC component of an applied source having either constant or alternating frequency?
The capacitance of certain capacitors decreases as the component ages	What value of some capacitors decreases with age?
Capacitors, especially ceramic capacitors, and older designs such as paper capacitors, can absorb sound waves resulting in a microphonic effect	What is the effect called when capacitors absorb sound waves?
In DC circuits and pulsed circuits, current and voltage reversal are affected by the damping of the system	What is one type of circuit in which voltage and current reversal are affected by damping?
An AC circuit will experience 100% voltage reversal, while under-damped DC circuits will experience less than 100%	What percentage of voltage reversal does an AC circuit experience?
On discharging a capacitor and disconnecting it, after a short time it may develop a voltage due to hysteresis in the dielectric	After discharging and disconnecting a capacitor, what causes it to develop a voltage?
Leakage is equivalent to a resistor in parallel with the capacitor	With what value is a resistor in parallel with a capacitor equal to?
Most types of capacitor include a dielectric spacer, which increases their capacitance	What do many capacitors contain that raises the capacitance?
Paper was used extensively in older devices and offers relatively high voltage performance	What benefit is offered by solid state paper capacitors?
Electrolytic capacitors use an aluminum or tantalum plate with an oxide dielectric layer	What is one type of metal which the conducting plates in electrolytic capacitors are commonly made of?
Supercapacitors store large amounts of energy	What is the main feature of a supercapacitor?
If a capacitor is driven with a time-varying voltage that changes rapidly enough, at some frequency the polarization of the dielectric cannot follow the voltage	Under what condition might the polarization of the dielectric be unable to follow the voltage?
where a single prime denotes the real part and a double prime the imaginary part, Z is the complex impedance with the dielectric present, Ccmplx is the so-called complex capacitance with the dielectric present, and C0 is the capacitance without the dielectric	How is the complex impedance with dielectric represented mathematically?
Z	How is the non-complex impedance with dielectric represented mathematically?
For small values of capacitance , ceramic disks use metallic coatings, with wire leads bonded to the coating	What order of magnitude of capacitance is suitable for capacitors comprised of ceramic disks with metallic coatings?
Capacitors may have their connecting leads arranged in many configurations, for example axially or radially	What is one type of configuration in which a capacitor may have its connecting leads organized?
Small, cheap discoidal ceramic capacitors have existed since the 1930s, and remain in widespread use	Since when have inexpensive ceramic disc capacitors existed?
Mechanically controlled variable capacitors allow the plate spacing to be adjusted, for example by rotating or sliding a set of movable plates into alignment with a set of stationary plates	What do mechanically controlled variable capacitors enable to be modified?
Larger capacitors like electrolytics usually display the actual capacitance together with the unit 	How do larger capacitors present their electrical characteristics?
"Capacitors are connected in parallel with the power circuits of most electronic devices and larger systems to shunt away and conceal current fluctuations from the primary power source to provide a ""clean"" power supply for signal or control circuits"	Why are capacitors connected in parallel with the power circuits of many devices and large systems?
In electric power distribution, capacitors are used for power factor correction	In what scenario are capacitors used for power factor correction?
When an inductive circuit is opened, the current through the inductance collapses quickly, creating a large voltage across the open circuit of the switch or relay	What happens to the current when an inductive circuit is opened?
In single phase squirrel cage motors, the primary winding within the motor housing is not capable of starting a rotational motion on the rotor, but is capable of sustaining one	What is the main winding on a squirrel cage motor capable of withstanding?
5 volt AA battery, has a capacitor which may contain over 15 joules of energy and be charged to over 300 volts	How much energy could a capacitor in a disposable camera contain?
Capacitors may catastrophically fail when subjected to voltages or currents beyond their rating, or as they reach their normal end of life	What could cause the failure of a capacitor?
The history of science is the study of the development of science and scientific knowledge, including both the natural sciences and social sciences	What are natural and social sciences a subcategory of?
The English word scientist is relatively recent—first coined by William Whewell in the 19th century	"Who coined the word ""scientist""?"
From the 18th century through late 20th century, the history of science, especially of the physical and biological sciences, was often presented in a progressive narrative in which true theories replaced false beliefs	What replaced false beliefs?
Combined with the development of agriculture, which allowed for a surplus of food, it became possible for early civilizations to develop, because more time and effort could be devoted to tasks than hunter-gatherers or early subsistence farmers had available	The advancement of agriculture made what possible?
Ancient Egypt made significant advances in astronomy, mathematics and medicine	Which civilization advanced in astronomy, mathematics, and medicine?
From their beginnings in Sumer around 3500 BC, the Mesopotamian people began to attempt to record some observations of the world with numerical data	Where did the Mesopotamian people originate from?
In Babylonian astronomy, records of the motions of the stars, planets, and the moon are left on thousands of clay tablets created by scribes	Who wrote on the clay tablets in Babylonian astronomy?
In Classical Antiquity, the inquiry into the workings of the universe took place both in investigations aimed at such practical goals as establishing a reliable calendar or determining how to cure a variety of illnesses and in those abstract investigations known as natural philosophy	Which era was marked by investigating the universe?
"The earliest Greek philosophers, known as the pre-Socratics, provided competing answers to the question found in the myths of their neighbors: ""How did the ordered cosmos in which we live come to be"	What are early Greek philosophers known as?
Subsequently, Plato and Aristotle produced the first systematic discussions of natural philosophy, which did much to shape later investigations of nature	Plato and Aristotle are known for systematically discussing what?
The important legacy of this period included substantial advances in factual knowledge, especially in anatomy, zoology, botany, mineralogy, geography, mathematics and astronomy; an awareness of the importance of certain scientific problems, especially those related to the problem of change and its causes; and a recognition of the methodological importance of applying mathematics to natural phenomena and of undertaking empirical research	Anatomy, zoology, geography, and studies like them are considered what?
The astronomer Aristarchus of Samos was the first known person to propose a heliocentric model of the solar system, while the geographer Eratosthenes accurately calculated the circumference of the Earth	Who created the sun-centered model of the solar system?
In Hellenistic Egypt, the mathematician Euclid laid down the foundations of mathematical rigor and introduced the concepts of definition, axiom, theorem and proof still in use today in his Elements, considered the most influential textbook ever written	Who wrote the book Elements?
Theophrastus wrote some of the earliest descriptions of plants and animals, establishing the first taxonomy and looking at minerals in terms of their properties such as hardness	What classification guide did Theophrastus create?
Mathematics: The earliest traces of mathematical knowledge in the Indian subcontinent appear with the Indus Valley Civilization (c	The Indus Valley Civilization was the first to have traces of what?
Indian astronomer and mathematician Aryabhata , in his Aryabhatiya introduced a number of trigonometric functions , trigonometric tables, and techniques and algorithms of algebra	When did Aryabhata live?
Astronomy: The first textual mention of astronomical concepts comes from the Vedas, religious literature of India	Which text was the first to have concepts of astronomy in it?
Medicine: Findings from Neolithic graveyards in what is now Pakistan show evidence of proto-dentistry among an early farming culture	Where are the Neolithic graveyards?
Mathematics: From the earliest the Chinese used a positional decimal system on counting boards in order to calculate	What method did early Chinese mathematicians use to calculate?
Astronomy: Astronomical observations from China constitute the longest continuous sequence from any civilisation and include records of sunspots , supernovas , lunar and solar eclipses	What observations in astronomy did China record?
Seismology: To better prepare for calamities, Zhang Heng invented a seismometer in 132 CE which provided instant alert to authorities in the capital Luoyang that an earthquake had occurred in a location indicated by a specific cardinal or ordinal direction	What was invented in 132 CE?
One of the best examples would be Shen Kuo , a polymath scientist and statesman who was the first to describe the magnetic-needle compass used for navigation, discovered the concept of true north, improved the design of the astronomical gnomon, armillary sphere, sight tube, and clepsydra, and described the use of drydocks to repair boats	Who discovered the idea of true north?
""" Western academic thought on the history of Chinese technology and science was galvanized by the work of Joseph Needham and the Needham Research Institute"	Who was the Needham Research Institute named after?
With the division of the Roman Empire, the Western Roman Empire lost contact with much of its past	What was a consequence of the Roman Empire being divided?
Muslim scientists placed far greater emphasis on experiment than had the Greeks	What method did Muslim scientists use more than the Greeks?
In mathematics, the Persian mathematician Muhammad ibn Musa al-Khwarizmi gave his name to the concept of the algorithm, while the term algebra is derived from al-jabr, the beginning of the title of one of his publications	What was Muhammad ibn Musa al-Khwarizmi's profession?
In astronomy, Al-Battani improved the measurements of Hipparchus, preserved in the translation of Ptolemy's Hè Megalè Syntaxis translated as Almagest	Whose work did Al-Battani improve?
Ibn Sina is regarded as the most influential philosopher of Islam	Who was most influential in Islamic philosophy?
An intellectual revitalization of Europe started with the birth of medieval universities in the 12th century	When were medieval universities created?
At the beginning of the 13th century, there were reasonably accurate Latin translations of the main works of almost all the intellectually crucial ancient authors, allowing a sound transfer of scientific ideas via both the universities and the monasteries	What language did the important scientific works get translated into for universities and monasteries?
"William of Ockham introduced the principle of parsimony: natural philosophers should not postulate unnecessary entities, so that motion is not a distinct thing but is only the moving object and an intermediary ""sensible species"" is not needed to transmit an image of an object to the eye"	Who pioneered parsimony?
In 1348, the Black Death and other disasters sealed a sudden end to the previous period of massive philosophic and scientific development	What year did the Black Death occur?
The renewal of learning in Europe, that began with 12th century Scholasticism, came to an end about the time of the Black Death, and the initial period of the subsequent Italian Renaissance is sometimes seen as a lull in scientific activity	The focus on learning in the 12th century is referred to as what?
The willingness to question previously held truths and search for new answers resulted in a period of major scientific advancements, now known as the Scientific Revolution	What was the Scientific Revolution?
The Age of Enlightenment was a European affair	The Age of Reason made way for which movement?
The Romantic Movement of the early 19th century reshaped science by opening up new pursuits unexpected in the classical approaches of the Enlightenment	Which movement took place during the 19th century?
The scientific revolution is a convenient boundary between ancient thought and classical physics	Which movement is considered to be a dividing line between ancient thought and classical physics?
In 1687, Isaac Newton published the Principia Mathematica, detailing two comprehensive and successful physical theories: Newton's laws of motion, which led to classical mechanics; and Newton's Law of Gravitation, which describes the fundamental force of gravity	What work was printed by Isaac Newton in 1687?
Beginning in 1900, Max Planck, Albert Einstein, Niels Bohr and others developed quantum theories to explain various anomalous experimental results, by introducing discrete energy levels	What science subject explains anomalous results?
In 1938 Otto Hahn and Fritz Strassmann discovered nuclear fission with radiochemical methods, and in 1939 Lise Meitner and Otto Robert Frisch wrote the first theoretical interpretation of the fission process, which was later improved by Niels Bohr and John A	Who discovered nuclear fission?
Modern chemistry emerged from the sixteenth through the eighteenth centuries through the material practices and theories promoted by alchemy, medicine, manufacturing and mining	When did modern chemistry come into existence?
The synthesis of urea by Friedrich Wöhler opened a new research field, organic chemistry, and by the end of the 19th century, scientists were able to synthesize hundreds of organic compounds	What scientific act is Friedrich Wohler known for?
Theophrastus' work on rocks, Peri lithōn, remained authoritative for millennia: its interpretation of fossils was not overturned until after the Scientific Revolution	What was the work of Theophrastus on rocks called?
Geology did not undergo systematic restructuring during the Scientific Revolution, but individual theorists made important contributions	What happened to geology during the Scientific Revolution?
Benoît de Maillet and the Comte de Buffon saw the Earth as much older than the 6,000 years envisioned by biblical scholars	How old did biblical scholars think the Earth was?
Midway through the 19th century, the focus of geology shifted from description and classification to attempts to understand how the surface of the Earth had changed	What changed about the way geology was implemented during the 19th century?
In 1847, Hungarian physician Ignác Fülöp Semmelweis dramatically reduced the occurrency of puerperal fever by simply requiring physicians to wash their hands before attending to women in childbirth	What was Ignac Fulop Semmelweis' profession?
Perhaps the most prominent, controversial and far-reaching theory in all of science has been the theory of evolution by natural selection put forward by the British naturalist Charles Darwin in his book On the Origin of Species in 1859	Which scientist championed the idea of evolution?
The discipline of ecology typically traces its origin to the synthesis of Darwinian evolution and Humboldtian biogeography, in the late 19th and early 20th centuries	The discipline of ecology is a combination of what two subjects?
Political science is a late arrival in terms of social sciences	What larger group does political science belong to?
In Western culture, the study of politics is first found in Ancient Greece	Where did studying politics originate?
An ancient Indian treatise on statecraft, economic policy and military strategy by Kautilya and Viṣhṇugupta, who are traditionally identified with Chāṇakya (c	Who are Kautilya and Vishnugupta usually grouped with?
With the fall of the Western Roman Empire, there arose a more diffuse arena for political studies	What allowed political studies to spread?
Historical linguistics emerged as an independent field of study at the end of the 18th century	What new subject surface at the end of the 18th century?
The basis for classical economics forms Adam Smith's An Inquiry into the Nature and Causes of the Wealth of Nations, published in 1776	Who wrote An Inquiry into the Nature and Causes of the Wealth of Nations?
In the 1920s, John Maynard Keynes prompted a division between microeconomics and macroeconomics	What did John Maynard Keynes want to separate?
"The ""invisible hand"" mentioned in a lost page in the middle of a chapter in the middle of the to ""Wealth of Nations"", 1776, advances as Smith's central message"	When was Wealth of Nations written?
The end of the 19th century marks the start of psychology as a scientific enterprise	What was the beginning of psychology classified as?
The final decades of the 20th century have seen the rise of a new interdisciplinary approach to studying human psychology, known collectively as cognitive science	What is the group that human psychology belongs to?
Ibn Khaldun can be regarded as the earliest scientific systematic sociologist	What was Ibn Khaldun's profession?
"American sociology in the 1940s and 1950s was dominated largely by Talcott Parsons, who argued that aspects of society that promoted structural integration were therefore ""functional"""	Who was the major proponent of American sociology?
Computer science, built upon a foundation of theoretical linguistics, discrete mathematics, and electrical engineering, studies the nature and limits of computation	What science is based on linguistics, mathematics, and engineering?
As an academic field, history of science began with the publication of William Whewell's History of the Inductive Sciences 	What text is the foundation of the study of the history of science?
Much of the study of the history of science has been devoted to answering questions about what science is, how it functions, and whether it exhibits large-scale patterns and trends	What is the large question that the history of science answers?
Humboldtian science refers to the early 19th century approach of combining scientific field work with the age of Romanticism sensitivity, ethics and aesthetic ideals	What did Humboldtian science aim to do?
The mid 20th century saw a series of studies relying to the role of science in a social context, starting from Thomas Kuhn's The Structure of Scientific Revolutions in 1962	Where did the social aspect of science originate?
Jerome Ravetz 1971 Scientific Knowledge and its Social Problems referred to the role of the scientific community, as a social construct, in accepting or rejecting scientific knowledge	What did Scientific Knowledge and its Social Problems describe the scientific community as?
", short for ""Digital Monsters"" , is a Japanese media franchise encompassing virtual pet toys, anime, manga, video games, films and a trading card game"	What does Digimon stand for?
The franchise was first created in 1997 as a series of virtual pets, akin to—and influenced in style by—the contemporary Tamagotchi or nano Giga Pet toys	When did Digimon first appear?
Digimon was first conceived as a virtual pet toy in the vein of Tamagotchis and, as such, took influence from Tamagotchis' cute and round designs	What kind of toy were the original Digimon?
This second type of Digi-Egg is called a Digimental (デジメンタル, Dejimentaru	How do digimon evolve?
However, if a Digimon's data is completely destroyed, they will die	Are there any circumstances under which a digimon cannot be reborn?
It was planned by WiZ and released by Bandai on June 26, 1997	What companies were responsible for the creation and subsequent release of the original digimon?
"According to the stories, they are inhabitants of the ""DigiWorld"", a manifestation of Earth's communication network"	What is the world in which the digimon live?
As of 2011, there have been six series — Digimon Adventure, the follow-up sequel Digimon Adventure 02, Digimon Tamers, Digimon Frontier, Digimon Data Squad and Digimon Fusion	How many series have aired since 2011?
The first Digimon television series, which began airing on March 7, 1999 in Japan on Fuji TV and Kids Station and on August 14, 1999 in the United States on Fox Kids dubbed by Saban Entertainment for the North American English version	When did the first digimon series begin airing in japan?
The second Digimon series is direct continuation of the first one, and began airing on April 2, 2000	When did the second series of Digimon air?
"The third Digimon series, which began airing on April 1, 2001, is set largely in a ""real world"" where the Adventure and Adventure 02 series are television shows, and where Digimon game merchandise become key to providing power boosts to real Digimon which appear in that world"	When did the third Digimon series begin?
The fourth Digimon series, which began airing on April 7, 2002, radically departs from the previous three by focusing on a new and very different kind of evolution, Spirit Evolution, in which the human characters use their D-Tectors to transform themselves into special Digimon called Legendary Warriors, detracting from the customary formula of having digital partners	When did the fourth series of Digimon begin?
After a three-year hiatus, a fifth Digimon series began airing on April 2, 2006	How long did Digimon stay off the air before returning?
Three and a quarter years after the end of the fifth series, a new sixth series was confirmed by Bandai for the Digimon anime, its official name of the series revealed in the June issue of Shueisha's V Jump magazine being Digimon Xros Wars	How long after the 5th season did the next one start?
On August 17, 2011, Shueisha's V-Jump magazine announced a sequel set one year later, a third arc of Xros Wars subtitled The Young Hunters Who Leapt Through Time, which aired from October 2, 2011 to March 25, 2012, following on from the previous arc	When was the sequel announcement for the third arc?
A new Digimon series was announced 30 months after the end of Digimon Fusion at a 15th anniversary concert and theater event for the franchise in August 2014	How long after Digimon Fusion was a new series announced?
The series is set three years after the events of Digimon Adventure 02, when Digimon who turn rogue by a mysterious infection appear to wreak havoc in the Human World	How soon after did another series start after the Digimon Adventure 02?
There have been nine Digimon movies released in Japan	How many Digimon movies have been released in Japan?
Eventually the UK comics were given their own original stories, which appeared in both the UK's official Digimon Magazine and the official UK Fox Kids companion magazine, Wickid	What magazine were given their own original stories of Digimon?
The Digimon series has a large number of video games which usually have their own independent storylines with a few sometimes tying into the stories of the anime series or manga series	What did the Digimon series end up having lots of during the series?
In 2011, Bandai posted a countdown on a teaser site	In what year did Bandai post information about a reboot on his website?
A glacier is a persistent body of dense ice that is constantly moving under its own weight; it forms where the accumulation of snow exceeds its ablation over many years, often centuries	How long does it take glaciers to form?
On Earth, 99% of glacial ice is contained within vast ice sheets in the polar regions, but glaciers may be found in mountain ranges on every continent except Australia, and on a few high-latitude oceanic islands	How much glacial ice is found surrounding the poles?
Many glaciers from temperate, alpine and seasonal polar climates store water as ice during the colder seasons and release it later in the form of meltwater as warmer summer temperatures cause the glacier to melt, creating a water source that is especially important for plants, animals and human uses when other sources may be scant	Do Earth's lakes or glaciers hold the most freshwater?
Glacial bodies larger than 50,000 km2 are called ice sheets or continental glaciers	At what dimensions are glaciers called ice sheets or continental glaciers?
Tidewater glaciers are glaciers that terminate in the sea, including most glaciers flowing from Greenland, Antarctica, Baffin and Ellesmere Islands in Canada, Southeast Alaska, and the Northern and Southern Patagonian Ice Fields	What are glaciers called that end in the sea?
In a similar way, the thermal regime of a glacier is often described by the temperature at its base alone	From where is the temperature of a glacier measured?
Glaciers form where the accumulation of snow and ice exceeds ablation	Under what circumstances do glaciers form?
Glaciers are broken into zones based on surface snowpack and melt conditions	What characteristics determine glacial zones?
The top 50 m of a glacier are rigid because they are under low pressure	Why are the tops of glaciers rigid?
Marginal crevasses form from the edge of the glacier, due to the reduction in speed caused by friction of the valley walls	Which crevasses form on the edge of the glacier?
In other cases, glaciers can move as fast as 20–30 m per day, such as in Greenland's Jakobshavn Isbræ 	In what area of Greenland can glaciers move 20-30m per day?
A few glaciers have periods of very rapid advancement called surges	What is a glacial surge?
In glaciated areas where the glacier moves faster than one km per year, glacial earthquakes occur	How far does a glacier have to move to cause glacial earthquakes?
Ogives are alternating wave crests and valleys that appear as dark and light bands of ice on glacier surfaces	What are ogives?
Glaciers are present on every continent and approximately fifty countries, excluding those that have glaciers only on distant subantarctic island territories	How many countries contain glaciers?
The permanent snow cover necessary for glacier formation is affected by factors such as the degree of slope on the land, amount of snowfall and the winds	Do glaciers require permanent snow or only temporary coverage?
Areas of the Arctic, such as Banks Island, and the McMurdo Dry Valleys in Antarctica are considered polar deserts where glaciers cannot form because they receive little snowfall despite the bitter cold	Which areas in Antartica are considered polar deserts?
Glaciers produce these when they contain large boulders that carve long scratches in the bedrock	What cause glacial stiations?
Glacial moraines are formed by the deposition of material from a glacier and are exposed after the glacier has retreated	When are glacial moraines visible?
"Before glaciation, mountain valleys have a characteristic ""V"" shape, produced by eroding water"	What shape do mountain valleys have pre-glacation?
At the start of a classic valley glacier is a bowl-shaped cirque, which has escarped walls on three sides but is open on the side that descends into the valley	On which side is a cirque opened?
"Some rock formations in the path of a glacier are sculpted into small hills called roche moutonnée, or ""sheepback"" rock"	What is another name for roche moutonnee?
Large masses, such as ice sheets or glaciers, can depress the crust of the Earth into the mantle	What has the ability to depress the crust of the Earth into the mantle?
Comcast Corporation, formerly registered as Comcast Holdings, is an American multinational mass media company and is the largest broadcasting and largest cable company in the world by revenue	What is the largest cable company in the world by revenue?
Entertainment Television, the Golf Channel, and NBCSN), over-the-air national broadcast network channels , the film production studio Universal Pictures, and Universal Parks & Resorts, with a global total of nearly 200 family entertainment locations and attractions in the U	What two national over-the-air broadcast entities are owned by Comcast?
The company's customer satisfaction often ranks among the lowest in the cable industry	What is the largest criticism leveled by consumers against Comcast
Roberts, Chairman, President, and CEO of Comcast, is son of co-founder Ralph Roberts	Who co-founded Comcast?
The company is often criticized by both the media and its own staff for its less upstanding policies regarding employee relations	Besides customer problems, what other area is Comcast often criticized over?
Comcast has also earned a reputation for being anti-union	What is Comcast's stance on organized labor?
"In 2009, it was included on CableFAX magazine's ""Top 10 Places to Work in Cable"", which cited its ""scale, savvy and vision"""	What magazine listed Comcast as one of its top places to work?
19 a share in 1999 to $15 a share in 2009	What was Comcast's share value in 2009?
8 million spent in 2013, Comcast has the seventh largest lobbying budget of any individual company or organization in the United States	Where did this lobbying budget place the company among all entities in the country?
In 1963, Ralph J	When did Ralph Roberts get into the cable TV business?
In 1994, Comcast became the third largest cable operator in the United States with around 3	Comcast's customer base in 1994 was good enough for what national ranking among its competition?
Comcast sold Comcast Cellular to SBC Communications in 1999 for $400 million, releasing them from $1	What was Comcast's telecommunication business prior to 1999?
In 2001, Comcast announced it would acquire the assets of the largest cable television operator at the time, AT&T Broadband, for US$44	When did Comcast acquire the cable assets of AT&T Broadband?
On February 11, 2004, Comcast announced a $54 billion bid for The Walt Disney Company, as well as taking on $12 billion of Disney's debt	What media conglomerate did Comcast try to buy in 2004?
On April 8, 2005, a partnership led by Comcast and Sony Pictures Entertainment finalized a deal to acquire MGM and its affiliate studio, United Artists, and create an additional outlet to carry MGM/UA's material for cable and Internet distribution	Comcast joined with what media company to acquire a movie studio in 2005?
Comcast announced in May 2007 and launched in September 2008 a dashboard called SmartZone	What was the name of the interface front-end introduced by Comcast in 2007?
In April 2005, Comcast and Time Warner Cable announced plans to buy the assets of bankrupted Adelphia Cable	What bankrupt company did Comcast partner with another broadband provider to acquire in 2005?
Media outlets began reporting in late September 2009 that Comcast was in talks to buy NBCUniversal	What media conglomerate did Comcast begin preliminary talks to buy in 2009?
Following a tentative agreement on by December 1, on December 3, 2009, the parties announced that Comcast would buy a controlling 51% stake in NBCUniversal for $6	On what date was Comcast's purchase of controlling interest in NBCUniversal reported?
On February 12, 2014, the Los Angeles Times reported that Comcast sought to acquire Time Warner Cable in a deal valued at $45	What publication originally reported a potential deal between Comcast and Time Warner?
Critics noted in 2013 that Tom Wheeler, the head of the FCC, which has to approve the deal, is the former head of both the largest cable lobbying organization, the National Cable & Telecommunications Association, and as largest wireless lobby, CTIA – The Wireless Association	Who was the head of the FCC at the time of Comcast's proposed purchase of Time Warner Cable?
On May 19, 2009, Disney and ESPN announced an agreement to allow Comcast Corporation to carry the channels ESPNU and ESPN3	Disney and Comcast joined forces to allow Comcast to air what sports networks?
Comcast also has a variety network known as Comcast Network, available exclusively to Comcast and Cablevision subscribers	What is the name of Comcast's channel available to subscribers in east coast markets?
In 1996, Comcast bought a controlling stake in Spectacor from the company's founder, Ed Snider	Who was the founder of Philadelphia sports corporation Spectator?
In 2004 and 2007, the American Customer Satisfaction Index survey found that Comcast had the worst customer satisfaction rating of any company or government agency in the country, including the Internal Revenue Service	What organization rated Comcast's customer service the worst in the country in 2004 and 2007?
"Comcast was given an ""F"" for its corporate governance practices in 2010, by Corporate Library, an independent shareholder-research organization"	"What organization gave Comcast an ""F"" rating in 2010?"
F	What rating was the Corporate Library given? 
"In January 2015, a customer named Ricardo Brown received a bill from Comcast with his name changed to ""Asshole Brown"""	What name was listed on Comcast customer Ricardo Brown's invoice in January, 2015?
Tuberculosis is an infectious disease usually caused by the bacterium Mycobacterium tuberculosis 	What bacterium causes tuberculosis infection?
One-third of the world's population is thought to be infected with TB	How much of the entire population of the planet is estimated to be carrying tuberculosis?
The upper lung lobes are more frequently affected by tuberculosis than the lower ones	Which lobes of the lungs are more often affected by TB?
"These are collectively denoted as ""extrapulmonary tuberculosis"""	What's the medical term for TB when it spreads from the lungs to other parts of the body?
The high lipid content of this pathogen accounts for many of its unique clinical characteristics	The uniqueness of Mycobacterium tuberculosis is due to its high level of what type of molecule?
Using histological stains on expectorated samples from phlegm , scientists can identify MTB under a microscope	"What's another word for ""sputum""?"
tuberculosis complex includes four other TB-causing mycobacteria: M	How many M. tuberculosis complexes are there?
People with prolonged, frequent, or close contact with people with TB are at particularly high risk of becoming infected, with an estimated 22% infection rate	If you're around someone with active TB, what's the chance you'll contract it expressed as a percentage?
TB infection begins when the mycobacteria reach the pulmonary alveoli, where they invade and replicate within endosomes of alveolar macrophages	What specific part of the lungs marks the start of tuberculosis infection?
"The primary site of infection in the lungs, known as the ""Ghon focus"", is generally located in either the upper part of the lower lobe, or the lower part of the upper lobe"	What two-word phrase is used for the main part of the lungs infected by TB?
Tuberculosis is classified as one of the granulomatous inflammatory diseases	What specific type of disease is TB?
Affected tissue is replaced by scarring and cavities filled with caseous necrotic material	What process replaces tissue damaged by TB?
Diagnosing active tuberculosis based only on signs and symptoms is difficult, as is diagnosing the disease in those who are immunosuppressed	Is active TB difficult or easy to diagnose by patients' symptoms alone?
Those who have been previously immunized may have a false-positive test result	What result might someone who has received a TB vaccination get from the Mantoux test?
The immunity it induces decreases after about ten years	For about how long does full immunity from the TB vaccine last?
"The World Health Organization declared TB a ""global health emergency"" in 1993, and in 2006, the Stop TB Partnership developed a Global Plan to Stop Tuberculosis that aims to save 14 million lives between its launch and 2015"	What group heads up the Global Plan to Stop Tuberculosis?
Effective TB treatment is difficult, due to the unusual structure and chemical composition of the mycobacterial cell wall, which hinders the entry of drugs and makes many antibiotics ineffective	What part of the mycobacterial cell makes tuberculosis more difficult to treat?
MDR-TB is defined as resistance to the two most effective first-line TB drugs: rifampicin and isoniazid	If a person has TB that's resistant to rifampicin and isoniazid, which type of the disease do they have?
The risk of reactivation increases with immunosuppression, such as that caused by infection with HIV	As immunosuppression goes up in tuberculosis cases, what risk rises with it? 
Roughly one-third of the world's population has been infected with M	At any given time, about how much of all the people in the world has M. tuberculosis?
Tuberculosis is the second-most common cause of death from infectious disease 	What infectious disease causes more deaths than tuberculosis?
In 2007, the country with the highest estimated incidence rate of TB was Swaziland, with 1,200 cases per 100,000 people	Out of every 100,000 people in Swaziland in 2007, how many were infected with tuberculosis?
tuberculosis involves evidence of the disease in the remains of bison in Wyoming dated to around 17,000 years ago	What animal was found with 17,000-year-old damage from tuberculosis?
tuberculosis, was identified and described on 24 March 1882 by Robert Koch	Who discovered M. tuberculosis?
"In 1815, one in four deaths in England was due to ""consumption"""	What was tuberculosis called in 19th-century England?
In Europe, rates of tuberculosis began to rise in the early 1600s to a peak level in the 1800s, when it caused nearly 25% of all deaths	When did the incidence of TB in Europe reach its highest point?
"Slow progress has led to frustration, expressed by executive director of the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria – Mark Dybul: ""we have the tools to end TB as a pandemic and public health threat on the planet, but we are not doing it"	"What member of leadership at the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria called TB a ""pandemic""?"
"One way to decrease stigma may be through the promotion of ""TB clubs"", where those infected may share experiences and offer support, or through counseling"	What groups might help tuberculosis patients share with and support each other?
The BCG vaccine has limitations, and research to develop new TB vaccines is ongoing	What vaccine are researchers trying to improve on?
A number of groups, including the Stop TB Partnership, the South African Tuberculosis Vaccine Initiative, and the Aeras Global TB Vaccine Foundation, are involved with research	What organization did the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation donate $280 million to?
Bedaquiline received U	What drug in the running to treat multi drug resistant TB has already gotten FDA approval?
Affirmative action in the United States tends to focus on issues such as education and employment, specifically granting special consideration to racial minorities, Native Americans, and women who have been historically excluded groups in America	Outside of employment, what is the other main issue that affirmative action focuses on?
Some policies adopted as affirmative action, such as racial quotas or gender quotas for collegiate admission, have been criticized as a form of reverse discrimination, and such implementation of affirmative action has been ruled unconstitutional by the majority opinion of Gratz v	What is another example aside from racial quotes of affirmative action for collegiate admissions?
Ideas for affirmative action came as early as the Reconstruction Era in which a former slave population lacked the skills and resources for sustainable living	When did the Reconstruction Era end?
The first appearance of the term 'affirmative action' was in the National Labor Relations Act, better known as the Wagner Act, of 1935	"In which document did the term ""affirmative action"" first appear?"
"FDR's New Deal programs often contained equal opportunity clauses stating ""no discrimination shall be made on account of race, color or creed"",:11 but the true forerunner to affirmative action was the Interior Secretary of the time, Harold L"	What position of power did Harold L. Ickes hold?
Truman, himself a combat veteran of World War I, issued Executive Order 9808 establishing the President's Committee on Civil Rights to examine the violence and recommend appropriate federal legislation	What group was established in response to Executive Order 9808?
To Secure These Rights also called for desegregation of the Armed Forces	"The ""To Secure These Rights"" findings wanted desegregation of which institution?"
In June, Truman became the first president to address the NAACP	Who was the first President to address the NAACP?
On July 26, Truman mandated the end of hiring and employment discrimination in the federal government, reaffirming FDR's order of 1941	What day did Truman mandate the end of discrimination in the federal government?
When Eisenhower was elected President in 1952, he believed hiring practices and anti-discrimination laws should be decided by the states, although the administration gradually continued to desegregate the Armed Forces and the federal government	Which year was Eisenhower elected President?
"Kennedy ""criticized President Eisenhower for not ending discrimination in federally supported housing"" and ""advocated a permanent Fair Employment Practices Commission"""	What was John F. Kennedy's criticism of the President based on?
In June 1963, President Kennedy continued his policy of affirmative action by issuing another mandate, Executive Order 11114	When did President Kennedy issue Executive Order 11114?
Kennedy's Executive Order 10925, which was chaired by Vice President Johnson	"Which Executive Order first contained the phrase ""affirmative action""?"
"NAACP had many problem's with JFK's ""token"" proposal"	Who had issues with JFK's proposal?
This eventually led to LBJ's Civil Rights Act, which came shortly after President Kennedy's assassination	Which piece of legislation quickly followed President Kennedy's assassination?
Title VII was perhaps the most controversial of the entire bill	Which section of the legislation was considered the most controversial?
The strides that the Johnson presidency made in ensuring equal opportunity in the workforce were further picked up by his successor Nixon	Who followed in Johnson's footsteps in terms of ensuring equal opportunity?
After the Nixon administration, advancements in affirmative action became less prevalent	In terms of advancement, what happened to the progression of affirmative action after the Nixon administration?
In the beginning, racial classifications that identified race were inherently suspect and subject to strict scrutiny	What kind of classification was subject to strict scrutiny?
The case concerns White and Hispanic firefighters in New Haven, Connecticut, who upon passing their test for promotions to management were denied the promotions, allegedly because of a discriminatory or at least questionable test	Where was the issue of White and Hispanic firefighters heard in the case based out of?
"President Kennedy stated in Executive Order 10925 that ""discrimination because of race, creed, color, or national origin is contrary to the Constitutional principles and policies of the United States""; that ""it is the plain and positive obligation of the United States Government to promote and ensure equal opportunity for all qualified persons, without regard to race, creed, color, or national origin, employed or seeking employment with the Federal Government and on government contracts""; that ""it is the policy of the executive branch of the Government to encourage by positive measures equal opportunity for all qualified persons within the Government""; and that ""it is in the general interest and welfare of the United States to promote its economy, security, and national defense through the most efficient and effective utilization of all available manpower"""	Which President declared that discrimination is contrary to the Constitutional principles of the United States?
Proponents of affirmative action argue that by nature the system is not only race based, but also class and gender based	Other than being race and gender based, what did believers in affirmative action also feel that the system discriminated against?
Following the end of World War II the educational gap between White and Black Americans was widened by Dwight D	What major event preceded the growth of the divide in education between White and Black Americans?
In 1991, Mexican Americans, Puerto Ricans, and Cuban Americans made up 80% of the Latino population in the United States	How much of the Latino population did Mexican Americans, Puerto Ricans and Cuban Americans make up in 1991?
The category of Native American applies to the diverse group of people who lived in North America before European settlement	Which groups can be categorized as Native Americans?
Early Asian immigrants experienced prejudice and discrimination in the forms of not having the ability to become naturalized citizens	What form of discrimination did early Asian immigrants experience?
Proponents of affirmative action recognize that the policy is inherently unequal; however, minding the inescapable fact that historic inequalities exist in America, they believe the policy is much more fair than one in which these circumstances are not taken into account	What is one of the issues with affirmative action?
Bill Clinton, however, made his stance on affirmative action very clear in a speech on July 19, 1995, nearly two and a half years after his inauguration	Which President made their stance on affirmative action clear in 1995?
stated in a 2014 overview that many supporters for affirmative action argue that policies stemming from affirmative action help to open doors for historically excluded groups in workplace settings and higher education	What did proponents of affirmative action claim some of the effects of policies that support affirmative action had done?
In the year 2000, according to a study by American Association of University Professors , affirmative action promoted diversity within colleges and universities	What does AAUP stand for?
Richard Sander claims that by artificially elevating minority students into schools they otherwise would not be capable of attending, this discourages them and tends to engender failure and high dropout rates for these students	Who claims that artificially raising minority students into schools has a negative effect on them?
The controversy surrounding affirmative action's effectiveness is based on the idea of class inequality	Which idea is the controversy of affirmative action primarily based upon?
In 1976, a group of Italian American professors at City University of New York asked to be added as an affirmative action category for promotion and hiring	Where were the Italian American professors employed that asked to be added as an affirmative action category?
Frederick Lynch, the author of Invisible Victims: White Males and the Crisis of Affirmative Action, did a study on white males that said they were victims of reverse discrimination	What book did Frederick Lynch author?
"Terry Eastland, the author who wrote From Ending Affirmative Action: The Case for Colorblind Justice states, ""Most arguments for affirmative action fall into two categories: remedying past discrimination and promoting diversity"""	Which book did Terry Eastland write?
Some commentators have defined reverse discrimination as a policy or practice in which members of a majority are discriminated against in favor of a historically disadvantaged group or minority	What is a definition of reverse discrimination?
Another popular argument for affirmative action is the compensation argument	What is a typical argument in favor of affirmative action?
Some opponents further claim that affirmative action has undesirable side-effects and that it fails to achieve its goals	Other than failing to achieve its goal, what else do opponents to affirmative action claim it has?
In the US, a prominent form of racial preferences relates to access to education, particularly admission to universities and other forms of higher education	Where are racial preferences highlighted the most in the United States?
"The racial preferences debate related to admission to US colleges and universities reflects competing notions of the mission of colleges: ""To what extent should they pursue scholarly excellence, to what extent civic goods, and how should these purposes be balanced"	What does the racial preferences debate indicate about universities and colleges?
Texas banning any use of race in school admissions, the State of Texas passed a law guaranteeing entry to any state university if a student finished in the top 10% of their graduating class	What did the ruling in Hopwood v Texas set a precedent for in terms of admission policies?
During a panel discussion at Harvard University's reunion for African American alumni during the 2003–04 academic year, two prominent black professors at the institution—Lani Guinier and Henry Louis Gates—pointed out an unintended effect of affirmative action policies at Harvard	What was going on at Harvard University during the 2003 - 04 academic year?
UCLA professor Richard H	To which university does Richard H. Sander belong?
A study in 2007 by Mark Long, an economics professor at the University of Washington, demonstrated that the alternatives of affirmative action proved ineffective in restoring minority enrollment in public flagship universities in California, Texas, and Washington	What area of study did professor Mark Long have a degree in?
"In 2006, Jian Li, a Chinese undergraduate at Yale University, filed a civil rights complaint with the Office for Civil Rights against Princeton University, claiming that his race played a role in their decision to reject his application for admission and seeking the suspension of federal financial assistance to the university until it ""discontinues discrimination against Asian Americans in all forms"" by eliminating race and legacy preferences"	With which organization did Li file a civil rights complaint?
"In 2012, Abigail Fisher, an undergraduate student at Louisiana State University, and Rachel Multer Michalewicz, a law student at Southern Methodist University, filed a lawsuit to challenge the University of Texas admissions policy, asserting it had a ""race-conscious policy"" that ""violated their civil and constitutional rights"""	Which University had a lawsuit filed against it?
On November 17, 2014, Students for Fair Admissions, an offshoot of the Project on Fair Representation, filed lawsuits in federal district court challenging the admissions practices of Harvard University and the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill	On which date were lawsuits filed against Harvard and Chapel Hill?
In May 2015, a coalition of more than 60 Asian-American organizations filed federal complaints with the Education and Justice Departments against Harvard University	How many Asian organizations were involved in filing the federal complaints?
"The competition is open to any eligible club down to Levels 10 of the English football league system - all 92 professional clubs in the Premier League and Football League , and several hundred ""non-league"" teams in Steps 1 to 6 of the National League System "	Who is the competition open too?
The first six rounds are the Qualifying Competition, from which 32 teams progress to the first round of the Competition Proper, meeting the first of the 92 professional teams	What rounds are the qualifiers?
Winners receive the FA Cup trophy, of which there have been two designs and five actual cups; the latest is a 2014 replica of the second design, introduced in 1911	What do winners receive? 
In 1863, the newly founded Football Association published the Laws of the Game of Association Football, unifying the various different rules in use before then	When was the laws of the Game of Asscociation Football published?
Following the 1914–15 edition, the competition was suspended due to the First World War, and didn't resume until 1919–20	Was competition suspended due to the first world war? 
The competition is open to any club down to Level 10 of the English football league system which meets the eligibility criteria	Is the competition open to anyone? 
It is very rare for top clubs to miss the competition, although it can happen in exceptional circumstances	Does anyone ever miss a tournament? 
Welsh sides that play in English leagues are eligible, although since the creation of the League of Wales there are only six clubs remaining: Cardiff City , Swansea City, Newport County, Wrexham, Merthyr Town and Colwyn Bay	May Welsh clubs enter the competition? 
The number of entrants has increased greatly in recent years	Has the number of entrants stayed the same? 
Beginning in August, the competition proceeds as a knockout tournament throughout, consisting of twelve rounds, a semi-final and then a final, in May	When is the final?
The only seasons in recent times when this pattern was not followed were 1999–2000, when most rounds were played a few weeks earlier than normal as an experiment, and 2010–11 and 2012–13 when the FA Cup Final was played before the Premier League season had finished, to allow Wembley Stadium to be ready for the UEFA Champions League final, as well as in 2011–12 to allow England time to prepare for that summer's European Championships	Was there a time this was not the case? 
Some ties took as many as six matches to settle; in their 1975 campaign, Fulham played a total of 12 games over six rounds, which remains the most games played by a team to reach a final	What is the most games played a team to reach the final?
The FA Cup winners qualify for the following season's UEFA Europa League 	Do the FA Cup winners qualify for anything?
The semi-finals have been played exclusively at the rebuilt Wembley Stadium since 2008, one year after it opened and after it had already hosted a final 	Where are the semi finals played?
In 2003 the FA took the decision to permanently use the new Wembley for semi-finals to recoup debts in financing the new stadium	Where is the FA cup held today?
The final has been played at the rebuilt Wembley Stadium since it opened, in 2007	Where is the final played now? 
It was played 22 times in the Oval 	What was the first year the Oval hosted the FA cup? 
Under the 2015-16 rules, the pitch must be of FIFA One Star quality, or Two Star for ties if they involve one of the 92 professional clubs	How many professional clubs are there? 
The trophy comes in three parts - the cup itself, plus a lid and a base	How many parts does the trophy come in? 
The name of the winning team is engraved on the silver band around the base as soon as the final has finished, in order to be ready in time for the presentation ceremony	Is the cup engraved for the winner? 
The tradition of presenting the trophy immediately after the game did not start until the 1882 final; after the first final in 1872 the trophy was not presented to the winners, Wanderers, until a reception held four weeks later in the Pall Mall Restaurant in London	When did people start presenting the trophy after the game? 
He claimed to have carried out the robbery with two other men, although when discrepancies with a contemporaneous report in the Birmingham Post newspaper in his account of the means of entry and other items stolen, detectives decided there was no realistic possibility of a conviction and the case was closed	Did he act alone? 
After being rendered obsolete by the redesign, the 1895 replica was presented in 1910 to the FA's long-serving president Lord Kinnaird	Who was the long-serving president of the FA cup?
Sponsorship deals run for four years, though – as in the case of E	How long does the sponsor remain? 
"The possibility of unlikely victories in the earlier rounds of the competition, where lower ranked teams beat higher placed opposition, known as ""giant killings"", is much anticipated by the public, and is considered an integral part of the tradition and prestige of the competition, alongside that gained by teams winning the competition"	Do people look forward to Cinderella matches? 
The Football League was founded in 1888, 16 years after the first FA Cup competition	When was the football league founded? 
Chasetown, whilst playing at Level 8 of English football during the 2007–08 competition, are the lowest-ranked team to play in the Third Round Proper 	Who is the lowest rank to play in the third round proper?
Seven clubs have won the FA Cup as part of a League and Cup double, namely Preston North End , Aston Villa , Tottenham Hotspur , Arsenal , Liverpool , Manchester United and Chelsea 	How many clubs have won the fa cup as part of a league cup double? 
The final has never been contested by two teams from outside the top division and there have only been eight winners who weren't in the top flight: Notts County ; Tottenham Hotspur ; Wolverhampton Wanderers ; Barnsley ; West Bromwich Albion ; Sunderland , Southampton and West Ham United 	Has the final been played by a two clubs outside of the top divisions? 
In the early years of coverage the BBC had exclusive radio coverage with a picture of the pitch marked in the Radio Times with numbered squares to help the listener follow the match on the radio	Who used to brodcast the matches on the radio? 
From 1988 to 1997, the BBC and Sky Sports had coverage of the FA Cup, the BBC had highlights on Match of the Day and usually one match per round while Sky had the same deal	Who had FA cup coverage from 1988-1997?
ESPN took over the package Setanta held for the FA Cup from the 2010–11 season	Who took over the package from Sentana?
state of Connecticut, is the principal municipality in Greater New Haven, which had a total population of 862,477 in 2010	In which US state is New Haven located?
In 1637 a small party of Puritans reconnoitered the New Haven harbor area and wintered over	In what year did the Puritans survey New Haven Harbor?
By 1640, the town's theocratic government and nine-square grid plan were in place, and the town was renamed Newhaven from Quinnipiac	What type of government did the Puritan settlers establish?
As the American Revolution approached, General David Wooster and other influential residents hoped that the conflict with the government in Britain could be resolved short of rebellion	Who was the influential New Haven general that hoped to avoid conflict with the British Parliament as the American Revolution loomed closer?
On July 5, 1779, 2,600 loyalists and British regulars under General William Tryon, governor of New York, landed in New Haven Harbor and raided the 3,500-person town	Who was the governor of New York under which the loyalist and British raid of New Haven took place?
The city struck fortune in the late 18th century with the inventions and industrial activity of Eli Whitney, a Yale graduate who remained in New Haven to develop the cotton gin and establish a gun-manufacturing factory in the northern part of the city near the Hamden town line	Who is the Yale graduate, inventor, and arms manufacturer that had a large positive impact on the New Haven economy in the late 18th century?
New Haven was home to one of the important early events in the burgeoning anti-slavery movement when, in 1839, the trial of mutineering Mende tribesmen being transported as slaves on the Spanish slaveship Amistad was held in New Haven's United States District Court	In what year did an important trial take place which situated New Haven among the forefront of the growing anti-slavery movement?
The American Civil War boosted the local economy with wartime purchases of industrial goods, including that of the New Haven Arms Company, which would later become the Winchester Repeating Arms Company	What major war stimulated the New Haven economy by way of industrial goods purchased through the New Haven Arms Company?
Other parts of the city were affected by the construction of Interstate 95 along the Long Wharf section, Interstate 91, and the Oak Street Connector	What major U.S. interstate runs along the Long Wharf section of New Haven?
Since approximately 2000, many parts of downtown New Haven have been revitalized, with new restaurants, nightlife, and small retail stores	In approximately what year did revitalization most recently begin to occur in downtown New Haven?
Major projects include the current construction of a new campus for Gateway Community College downtown, and also a 32-story, 500-unit apartment/retail building called 360 State Street	What multi-use project in New Haven is the largest residential building in Connecticut?
In April 2009, the United States Supreme Court agreed to hear a suit over reverse discrimination brought by 18 white firefighters against the city	In what year did the U.S. Supreme Court entertain a lawsuit filed by 18 New Haven firefighters against the city of New Haven?
In 2010 and 2011, state and federal funds were awarded to Connecticut to construct the Hartford Line, with a southern terminus at New Haven's Union Station and a northern terminus at Springfield's Union Station	Funding was awarded to Connecticut in 2010 and 2011 to build what line with a southern terminus in New Haven?
New Haven's best-known geographic features are its large deep harbor, and two reddish basalt trap rock ridges which rise to the northeast and northwest of the city core	In addition to the New Haven Harbor, what additional natural element is a prominent geographic feature of the area, flanking the northeast and northwest boundaries?
The city is drained by three rivers; the West, Mill, and Quinnipiac, named in order from west to east	By how many rivers is the city of New Haven drained?
New Haven lies in the transition between a humid continental climate and humid subtropical climate , but having more characteristics of the former, as is typical of much of the New York metropolitan area	Though harboring transitive properties, what Koppen climate classification does the New Haven climate more closely characterize?
Upon founding, New Haven was laid out in a grid plan of nine square blocks; the central square was left open, in the tradition of many New England towns, as the city green 	On what type of city plan was New Haven laid out upon the founding of the area?
Downtown New Haven, occupied by nearly 7,000 residents, has a more residential character than most downtowns	Approximately how many residents make up the population of downtown New Haven?
In addition to Downtown, centered on the central business district and the Green, are the following neighborhoods: the west central neighborhoods of Dixwell and Dwight; the southern neighborhoods of The Hill, historic water-front City Point , and the harborside district of Long Wharf; the western neighborhoods of Edgewood, West River, Westville, Amity, and West Rock-Westhills; East Rock, Cedar Hill, Prospect Hill, and Newhallville in the northern side of town; the east central neighborhoods of Mill River and Wooster Square, an Italian-American neighborhood; Fair Haven, an immigrant community located between the Mill and Quinnipiac rivers; Quinnipiac Meadows and Fair Haven Heights across the Quinnipiac River; and facing the eastern side of the harbor, The Annex and East Shore 	What area of New Haven comprises the area centered around the business district and New Haven Green?
New Haven's economy originally was based in manufacturing, but the postwar period brought rapid industrial decline; the entire Northeast was affected, and medium-sized cities with large working-class populations, like New Haven, were hit particularly hard	What sector originally provided the largest contribution to New Haven's economy?
The Knights of Columbus, the world's largest Catholic fraternal service organization and a Fortune 1000 company, is headquartered in New Haven	What Fortune 1000 company, also the largest Catholic service organization in the world, is based in New Haven?
Census Bureau reports a 2010 population of 129,779, with 47,094 households and 25,854 families within the city of New Haven	How many households are located in New Haven according to the 2010 U.S. Census Bureau report?
New Haven is a predominantly Roman Catholic city, as the city's Dominican, Irish, Italian, Mexican, Ecuadorian, and Puerto Rican populations are overwhelmingly Catholic	What is the most prominent religion in New Haven?
Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton, while the two were students at Yale Law School	What New Haven institution did former U.S. president Bill Clinton and Hillary Rodham Clinton both attend?
New Haven's theocratic history is also mentioned several times by Alexis de Tocqueville in his classic volume on 19th-century American political life, Democracy in America	What penultimate work by Alexis de Tocqueville makes mention of New Haven's original theocratic government?
In 1970, the New Haven Black Panther trials took place, the largest and longest trials in Connecticut history	What New Haven trial is known to be the longest in the history of Connecticut?
In April 2009, the United States Supreme Court agreed to hear a suit over reverse discrimination brought by 20 white and Hispanic firefighters against the city	In what year did the U.S. Supreme Court agree to hear a lawsuit originally filed by 20 white and Hispanic firefighters seeking relief from the city of New Haven?
Garry Trudeau, creator of the political Doonesbury comic strip, attended Yale University	Who is the famous comic strip author of Doonesbury that attended Yale University in New Haven?
However, an analysis by the Regional Data Cooperative for Greater New Haven, Inc	Analysis by what organization detailed that municipality-based rankings may be inaccurate? 
Yale University, at the heart of downtown, is one of the city's best known features and its largest employer	What private university is located in downtown New Haven?
Hopkins School, a private school, was founded in 1660 and is the fifth-oldest educational institution in the United States	What private school, with the notable distinction of being the fifth-oldest educational institution in the U.S., was founded in New Haven?
The city is home to New Haven Promise, a scholarship funded by Yale University for students who meet the requirements	What scholarship is awarded in New Haven by Yale University to public school students meeting specified criteria?
com named New Haven as the Best Foodie City in the country in 2014	What distinction was afforded to New Haven in 2014 by Livability.com?
"New Haven-style pizza, called ""apizza"" in the original Italian dialect), made its debut at the iconic Frank Pepe Pizzeria Napoletana in 1925"	What dish is commonly considered to be penultimate culinary achievement in New Haven?
A second New Haven gastronomical claim to fame is Louis' Lunch, which is located in a small brick building on Crown Street and has been serving fast food since 1895	What landmark New Haven fast food establishment is located on Crown Street?
The carts cluster at three main points: by Yale – New Haven Hospital in the center of the Hospital Green , by Yale's Trumbull College , and on the intersection of Prospect and Sachem streets by the Yale School of Management	At what cross streets, marking the center of the Hospital Green of Yale - New Haven Hospital, do food carts congregate on weekdays?
The city hosts numerous theatres and production houses, including the Yale Repertory Theatre, the Long Wharf Theatre, and the Shubert Theatre	In addition to Yale Reparatory Theatre, what are two additional major theatre houses located in New Haven?
The Beinecke Rare Book and Manuscript Library features an original copy of the Gutenberg Bible	At what New Haven museum is an original copy of the Gutenberg Bible housed? 
Artspace on Orange Street is one of several contemporary art galleries around the city, showcasing the work of local, national, and international artists	What is the name of a prominent contemporary art gallery on Orange Street in New Haven?
The New Haven Green is the site of many free music concerts, especially during the summer months	What public area in New Haven is home to free concerts in the summer?
In addition to the Jazz Festival , New Haven serves as the home city of the annual International Festival of Arts and Ideas	To what annual art festival is the city of New Haven home?
"New Haven is served by the daily New Haven Register, the weekly ""alternative"" New Haven Advocate , the online daily New Haven Independent, and the monthly Grand News Community Newspaper"	What is the name of the major daily editorial newspaper for the city of New Haven?
New Haven has a history of professional sports franchises dating back to the 19th century and has been the home to professional baseball, basketball, football, hockey, and soccer teams—including the New York Giants of the National Football League from 1973 to 1974, who played at the Yale Bowl	What NFL team played at the Yale Bowl from 1973-1974?
As nearby Bridgeport built new sports facilities, the brutalist New Haven Coliseum rapidly deteriorated	What sports complex was shuttered in New Haven by the DeStefano administration in 2002? 
New Haven was the host of the 1995 Special Olympics World Summer Games; then-President Bill Clinton spoke at the opening ceremonies	In what year did New Haven host the Special Olympic Summer World Games?
The city has been home to a number of architects and architectural firms that have left their mark on the city including Ithiel Town and Henry Austin in the 19th century and Cesar Pelli, Warren Platner, Kevin Roche, Herbert Newman and Barry Svigals in the 20th	New Haven served as home to what two notable 19th century architects?
Many historical sites exist throughout the city, including 59 properties listed on the National Register of Historic Places	How many properties in New Haven are featured on the National Register of Historic Places? 
After the American Revolutionary War broke out in 1776, the Connecticut colonial government ordered the construction of Black Rock Fort to protect the port of New Haven	What structure was ordered to be built in New Haven in 1776 to protect the port at the outset of the Revolutionary War?
Grove Street Cemetery, a National Historic Landmark which lies adjacent to Yale's campus, contains the graves of Roger Sherman, Eli Whitney, Noah Webster, Josiah Willard Gibbs, Charles Goodyear and Walter Camp, among other notable burials	What cemetery in New Haven is situated next to the campus of Yale University and has been designated a National Historic Landmark? 
Lighthouse Point Park, a public beach run by the city, was a popular tourist destination during the Roaring Twenties, attracting luminaries of the period such as Babe Ruth and Ty Cobb	Throughout the Roaring Twenties, what public beach in New Haven was a favored destination for tourists?
Union Station is further served by four Amtrak lines: the Northeast Regional and the high-speed Acela Express provide service to New York, Washington, D	How many Amtrak lines service Union Station?
The New Haven Division buses follow routes that had originally been covered by trolley service	What form of public transportation preceded the current New Haven Division bus routes?
The Farmington Canal Trail is a rail trail that will eventually run continuously from downtown New Haven to Northampton, Massachusetts	What rail trail is slated to run between downtown New Haven and Northampton, Massachusetts? 
In 2004, the first bike lane in the city was added to Orange Street, connecting East Rock Park and the East Rock neighborhood to downtown	In what year did Orange Street receive the first bike lane in New Haven?
New Haven lies at the intersection of Interstate 95 on the coast—which provides access southwards and/or westwards to the western coast of Connecticut and to New York City, and eastwards to the eastern Connecticut shoreline, Rhode Island, and eastern Massachusetts—and Interstate 91, which leads northward to the interior of Massachusetts and Vermont and the Canadian border	What major interstate provides access between New Haven and New York City?
The Oak Street Connector intersects I-91 at exit 1, just south of the I-95/I-91 interchange, and runs northwest for a few blocks as an expressway spur into downtown before emptying onto surface roads	What downtown New Haven expressway spur intersects at exit 1 of 1-91?
The main road from downtown heading northwest is Whalley Avenue leading to Westville and Woodbridge	What road leading northwest from downtown New Haven comprises both Route 10 and Route 63 at various points?
New Haven Harbor is home to the Port of New Haven, a deep-water seaport with three berths capable of hosting vessels and barges as well as the facilities required to handle break bulk cargo	In what harbor is the Port of New Haven located?
There are two major medical centers downtown: Yale – New Haven Hospital has four pavilions, including the Yale – New Haven Children's Hospital and the Smilow Cancer Hospital; the Hospital of Saint Raphael is several blocks north, and touts its excellent cardiac emergency care program	How many major medical centers are located in downtown New Haven?
Yale and New Haven are working to build a medical and biotechnology research hub in the city and Greater New Haven region, and are succeeding to some extent	Yale and New Haven are conjointly attempting to build the area into a research hub for what two industries?
A second biotechnology district is being planned for the median strip on Frontage Road, on land cleared for the never-built Route 34 extension	On the median strip of what road is New Haven planning to create a secondary biotechnology district?
Near New Haven there is the static inverter plant of the HVDC Cross Sound Cable	What static inverter plant lies near New Haven? 
"Scenes in the film All About Eve are set at the Taft Hotel on the corner of College and Chapel streets, and the history of New Haven theaters as Broadway ""tryouts"" is depicted in the Fred Astaire film The Band Wagon "	At what former lodging facility in New Haven were scenes from the 1950's classic, All About Eve, filmed?
Several recent movies have been filmed in New Haven, including Mona Lisa Smile , with Julia Roberts, The Life Before Her Eyes , with Uma Thurman, and Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull directed by Steven Spielberg and starring Harrison Ford, Cate Blanchett and Shia LaBeouf	What 2003 movie featuring Julia Roberts was filmed in New Haven?
Scott Fitzgerald's literary classic The Great Gatsby, as well as by fellow fictional Yale alumnus C	In what Fitzgerald classic does the fictional protagonist make repeated references to New Haven?
New Haven was the location of one of Jim Morrison's infamous arrests while he fronted the rock group The Doors	What infamous Doors frontman was once arrested in New Haven?
The Calvinist manufacturing republic of Mulhouse, known as Stadtrepublik Mülhausen, became a part of Alsace after a vote by its citizens on 4 January 1798	When did Stadtrepublik become a part of Alsace?
The Alemanni were agricultural people, and their Germanic language formed the basis of modern-day dialects spoken along the Upper Rhine 	Which three territories make up the Upper Rhine?
At about this time the surrounding areas experienced recurring fragmentation and reincorporations among a number of feudal secular and ecclesiastical lordships, a common process in the Holy Roman Empire	What was considered a common practice in during the Holy Roman Empire?
As in much of Europe, the prosperity of Alsace came to an end in the 14th century by a series of harsh winters, bad harvests, and the Black Death	About when did Alsace lose its prosperity?
France began an aggressive policy of expanding eastward, first to the rivers Rhône and Meuse, and when those borders were reached, aiming for the Rhine	What were the names of the first two rivers France aggressively went to while expanding eastward?
In 1469, following the Treaty of St	In what year was Upper Alsace sold to the Archduke Sigismund?
By the time of the Protestant Reformation in the 16th century, Strasbourg was a prosperous community, and its inhabitants accepted Protestantism in 1523	When did Strasbourg accept Protestantism?
Beset by enemies and seeking to gain a free hand in Hungary, the Habsburgs sold their Sundgau territory to France in 1646, which had occupied it, for the sum of 1	When did the Habsburgs sell the Sundgau territory to France?
The year 1789 brought the French Revolution and with it the first division of Alsace into the départements of Haut- and Bas-Rhin	In what year did the division of Alsace take place?
At the same time, some Alsatians were in opposition to the Jacobins and sympathetic to the invading forces of Austria and Prussia who sought to crush the nascent revolutionary republic	Which two countries sought to crush the nascent republic?
The population grew rapidly, from 800,000 in 1814 to 914,000 in 1830 and 1,067,000 in 1846	What was the population of Alsace in 1846?
By 1790, the Jewish population of Alsace was approximately 22,500, about 3% of the provincial population	What was the population of Alsace in 1790?
France started the Franco-Prussian War , and was defeated by the Kingdom of Prussia and other German states	Which country defeated the French in 1871?
During the First World War, to avoid ground fights between brothers, many Alsatians served as sailors in the Kaiserliche Marine and took part in the Naval mutinies that led to the abdication of the Kaiser in November 1918, which left Alsace-Lorraine without a nominal head of state	What did Aslations do to avoid conflict amongst themselves during the first World War?
Alsace-Lorraine was occupied by Germany in 1940 during the Second World War	What year was Alsace-Lorraine occupied by Germany?
Conservative leader Nicolas Sarkozy got his best score in Alsace in the second round of the French presidential elections of 2007	Which conservative leader in 2007 received the best score during the second round of elections?
Most of the Alsatian population is Roman Catholic, but, largely because of the region's German heritage, a significant Protestant community also exists: today, the EPCAAL is France's second largest Protestant church, also forming an administrative union with the much smaller Calvinist EPRAL	Which group or religion dominates the Aslatian population?
"Landowners, who as ""local lords"" had the right to decide which religion was allowed on their land, were eager to entice populations from the more attractive lowlands to settle and develop their property"	What were landowners also known as that had a right to decide which religion was allowed on their property?
The authentic historical flag is the Rot-un-Wiss ; Red and White are commonly found on the coat of arms of Alsacian cities (Strasbourg, Mulhouse, Sélestat	What is the name of the historical flag of Alsace?
From the annexation of Alsace by France in the 17th century and the language policy of the French Revolution up to 1870, knowledge of French in Alsace increased considerably	Around when did the Annexation of Alsace occur?
During a reannexation by Germany , High German was reinstated as the language of education	Between what time period did the reannexation of Germany occur?
It was not until 9 June 1982, with the Circulaire sur la langue et la culture régionales en Alsace issued by the Vice-Chancellor of the Académie Pierre Deyon, that the teaching of German in primary schools in Alsace really began to be given more official status	What was the name of the Memorandum that allowed German teaching in Alsace schools to become more official?
Both Alsatian and Standard German were for a time banned from public life 	Which two dialects were banned from public life?
The constitution of the Fifth Republic states that French alone is the official language of the Republic	What does the French constitution state for the language in Aslace?
"The word Sauerkraut in Alsatian has the form sûrkrût, same as in other southwestern German dialects, and means ""sour cabbage"" as its Standard German equivalent"	In Alsatian, what does Sauerkraut mean?
"""Alsatia"", the Latin form of Alsace's name, has long ago entered the English language with the specialized meaning of ""a lawless place"" or ""a place under no jurisdiction"" - since Alsace was conceived by English people to be such"	What is the meaning of the name Aslatia in English?
At present, plans are being considered for building a new dual carriageway west of Strasbourg, which would reduce the buildup of traffic in that area by picking up north and southbound vehicles and getting rid of the buildup outside Strasbourg	What is currently being planed west of Strasbourg? 
Carnival is a Christian festive season that occurs before the Christian season of Lent	What's the name of the Christian festive season that occurs before the season of Lent?
The term Carnival is traditionally used in areas with a large Catholic presence	The term Carnival is very common in areas with a large presence of which religious sect?
Traditionally a carnival feast was the last opportunity to eat well before the time of food shortage at the end of the winter during which one was limited to the minimum necessary	Why was the carnival feast typically the last opportunity to eat well?
Several Germanic tribes celebrated the returning of the daylight	What did a bunch of Germanic tribes celebrate?
Tacitus wrote in his Germania: Germania 9	Who wrote the Germania?
Traditionally the feast also applied to sexual desires, which were supposed to be suppressed during the following fasting	What desires were expected to be suppressed during the fasting period?
While christian festivals such as corpus christi were church-sanctioned celebrations, Carnival was also a manifestation of European folk culture	What was one of the festivals sanctioned by the church?
In the year 743 the synod in Leptines spoke out furiously against the excesses in the month of February	In what year did the synod in Leptines rant against the excesses of the festival?
While forming an integral part of the Christian calendar, particularly in Catholic regions, many Carnival traditions resemble those antedating Christianity	Many Carnival traditions form an integral part of whose calendar?
However, evidence is insufficient to establish a direct origin from Saturnalia or other ancient festivals	What is insufficient to establish a direct origin from ancient festivals to Carnival?
Some of the best-known traditions, including carnal parades and masquerade balls, were first recorded in medieval Italy	Where were some of the best-known traditions first recorded?
Carnival was introduced by Portuguese settlers	What nationality were the settlers from who introduced Carnival?
In India, Carnival is celebrated only in the state of Goa and a Roman Catholic tradition, where it is known as Intruz which means swindler while Entrudo, the appropriate word in Portuguese for Carnival	What is the only state in India in which Carnival is celebrated?
The Carnival of Malmedy is locally called Cwarmê	Whose Carnival is known local as Cwarmê?
Some Belgian cities hold Carnivals during Lent	What do some Belgian cities hold during Lent?
Many towns in Croatia's Kvarner region observe the Carnival period, incorporating local traditions and celebrating local culture	Many towns in what region of Croatia observe the Carnival period?
Carnival has been celebrated for centuries	How long has Carnival been celebrated?
Three main parades take place during Carnival	How many parades take place during Carnival?
In Norway, students having seen celebrations in Paris introduced Carnival processions, masked balls and Carnival balls to Christiana in the 1840s and 1850s	Where did students in Norway originally see the celebrations?
"The ""Rheinische"" Carnival is held in the west of Germany, mainly in the states of North Rhine-Westphalia or Nordrhein-Westfalen, Rhineland Palatinate or Rheinland-Pfalz, but also in Hessen , Bavaria and other states"	Which Carnival is held in Germany's west?
"In Greece Carnival is also known as the Apokriés , or the season of the ""Opening of the Triodion"", so named after the liturgical book used by the church from then until Holy Week"	What is the Greece Carnival also called?
Other regions host festivities of smaller extent, focused on the reenactment of traditional carnevalic customs, such as Tyrnavos , Kozani , Rethymno and in Xanthi 	Who holds an annual Phallus festival?
Carnival in the Netherlands is called Carnaval, Vastenavond or Vastelaovend, and is most celebrated in traditionally Catholic regions, mainly the southern provinces North Brabant and Limburg	In what provinces is the Carnival mainly celebrated in the Netherlands?
"The Strumica Carnival has been held since at least 1670, when the Turkish author Evlija Chelebija wrote while staying there, ""I came into a town located in the foothills of a high hillock and what I saw that night was masked people running house–to–house, with laughter, scream and song"	How long has the Strumica Carnival been going on?
The Slovenian countryside displays a variety of disguised groups and individual characters among which the most popular and characteristic is the Kurent , a monstrous and demon-like, but fluffy figure	What countryside has multiple groups and individuals in disguise?
The most famous groups are the chirigotas, choirs and comparsas	The chirigotas, choirs and comparsas are the most famous of what?
In Catalonia people dress in masks and costume and organize a week-long series of parties, pranks, outlandish activities such as bed races, street dramas satirizing public figures and raucous processions to welcome the arrival of Sa Majestat el Rei Carnestoltes , known by various titles, including el Rei dels poca-soltes , Princep etern de Cornudella , Duc de ximples i corrumputs , Marquès de la bona mamella , Comte de tots els barruts , Baró de les Calaverades , and Senyor de l'alt Plàtan florit, dels barraquers i gamberrades i artista d'honor dalt del llit 	Where do people dress in masks and costume?
The King presides over a period of misrule in which conventional social rules may be broken and reckless behavior is encouraged	When may conventional social rules be broken?
The Carnival of Vilanova i la Geltrú has documented history from 1790 and is one of the richest in the variety of its acts and rituals	What city's carnival has documented history from 1790?
Adults have a meringue battle at midnight at the historic Plaça de les Cols	What sort of battle do the adults have at midnight?
For the King's funeral, people dress in elaborate mourning costume, many of them cross-dressing men who carry bouquets of phallic vegetables	What do people dress in for the King's funeral?
Carnaval de Solsona takes place in Solsona, Lleida	What is one of the longest free events in the streets?
Tarragona has one of the region's most complete ritual sequences	Who has one of the most complete ritual agendas?
Carnival means weeks of events that bring colourfully decorated floats, contagiously throbbing music, luxuriously costumed groups of celebrants of all ages, King and Queen elections, electrifying jump-ups and torchlight parades, the Jouvert morning: the Children's Parades and finally the Grand Parade	What contagiously throbs during the week of events?
Carnival is known as Crop Over and is Barbados's biggest festival	What is the Carnival known as in Barbados?
A major feature is the calypso competition	What type of competition is a major feature of the festival?
"Comparsas are held throughout the week, consisting of large groups ""of dancers dancing and traveling on the streets, followed by a Carrosa where the musicians play"	What's the name of the vehicle where the musicians play?
Carnival in Haiti started in 1804 in the capital Port-au-Prince after the declaration of independence	What year did the Carnival start in Haiti?
"J'ouvert, or ""Dirty Mas"", takes place before dawn on the Monday before Ash Wednesday"	When does Dirty Mas take place on the Monday before Ash Wednesday?
Carnival Tuesday hosts the main events	On what day is full costume worn?
In Mexico, Carnival is celebrated in about 225 cities and towns	About how many cities and towns in Mexico is Carnival celebrated in?
Carnival celebrations, usually referred to as Mardi Gras , were first celebrated in the Gulf Coast area, but now occur in many states	What does Mardi Gras translate to in French?
Carnival is celebrated in New York City in Brooklyn	Which borough of New York City is Carnival celebrated in?
In Argentina, the most representative Carnival performed is the so-called Murga, although other famous Carnivals, more like Brazil's, are held in Argentine Mesopotamia and the North-East	Which Carnival in Argentina is the most representative of the nature of the Carnival?
La Diablada Carnival takes place in Oruro in central Bolivia	Which Carnival takes place in Oruro in Bolivia?
Samba Schools are large, social entities with thousands of members and a theme for their song and parade each year	How many members do Samba Schools have?
The Carnival continued its evolution in small/unimportant towns out of view of the rulers	Where did the Carnival gestate out of the purview of rules?
In Ambato, the festivities are called Fiesta de las Flores y las Frutas 	What are the festivities known as in Ambato?
A uniquely Creole tradition is the touloulous	What is a tradition unique to the Creole people?
Peruvian Carnival incorporates elements of violence and reflects the urban violence in Peruvian society following the internal conflict in Peru	What does the Peruvian Carnival incorporate elements of?
The Carnival in Uruguay covers more than 40 days, generally beginning towards the end of January and running through mid March	How many days does the Carnival in Uruguay last for?
During the celebration, theaters called tablados are built in many places throughout the cities, especially in Montevideo	What are built in many places through the cities?
Baptists are individuals who comprise a group of Christian denominations and churches that subscribe to a doctrine that baptism should be performed only for professing believers , and that it must be done by complete immersion 	What individuals subscribe to a doctrine that baptism should be performed only for professing believers?
"Historians trace the earliest church labeled ""Baptist"" back to 1609 in Amsterdam, with English Separatist John Smyth as its pastor"	"When was the earliest church labeled ""Baptist"" traced to?"
"Baptist historian Bruce Gourley outlines four main views of Baptist origins: The modern scholarly consensus that the movement traces its origin to the 17th century via the English Separatists, the view that it was an outgrowth of Anabaptist traditions, the perpetuity view which assumes that the Baptist faith and practice has existed since the time of Christ, and the successionist view, or ""Baptist successionism"", which argues that Baptist churches actually existed in an unbroken chain since the time of Christ"	Who outlined the four main views of Baptist origins?
Modern Baptist churches trace their history to the English Separatist movement in the century after the rise of the original Protestant denominations	Modern Baptist churches trace their history to what movement?
During the Protestant Reformation, the Church of England separated from the Roman Catholic Church	When did the Church of England separate from the Roman Catholic Church?
Historians trace the earliest Baptist church back to 1609 in Amsterdam, with John Smyth as its pastor	Historians trace the earliest Baptist church back to when?
""" In it he expressed two propositions: first, infants are not to be baptized; and second, ""Antichristians converted are to be admitted into the true Church by baptism"	What was his first proposition?
Smyth, convinced that his self-baptism was invalid, applied with the Mennonites for membership	Who thought their self-baptism was invalid?
Another milestone in the early development of Baptist doctrine was in 1638 with John Spilsbury, a Calvinistic minister who helped to promote the strict practice of believer's baptism by immersion	When did John Spilsbury promote the strict practice of immersion?
A minority view is that early seventeenth-century Baptists were influenced by continental Anabaptists	Who was thought to be influenced by continental Anabaptists?
Both Roger Williams and John Clarke, his compatriot and coworker for religious freedom, are variously credited as founding the earliest Baptist church in North America	Who founded the earliest Baptist church in North America?
Baptist missionary work in Canada began in the British colony of Nova Scotia in the 1760s	Missionary work began in what Canadian colony?
In May 1845, the Baptist congregations in the United States split over slavery and missions	When did Baptist congregations split over slavery?
The largest such group is the Southern Baptist Convention	What is the largest fellowship without control?
Baptists, like other Christians, are defined by doctrine—some of it common to all orthodox and evangelical groups and a portion of it distinctive to Baptists	Baptists are defined by what?
Shared doctrines would include beliefs about one God; the virgin birth; miracles; atonement for sins through the death, burial, and bodily resurrection of Jesus; the Trinity; the need for salvation ; grace; the Kingdom of God; last things ; and evangelism and missions	Beliefs about one God; the virgin birth; miracles; atonement for sins through the death, burial, and bodily resurrection of Jesus are examples of what?
"Baptist historian Walter Shurden says the word ""crisis"" comes from the Greek word meaning ""to decide"	"""Crisis"" comes from a Greek word meaning what?"
Leading up to the American Civil War, Baptists became embroiled in the controversy over slavery in the United States	When did Baptists become embroiled in the controversy over slavery in the United States?
As early as the late 18th century, black Baptists began to organize separate churches, associations and mission agencies, especially in the northern states	When did black Baptists began to organize separate churches, associations and mission agencies?
Elsewhere in the Americas, in the Caribbean in particular, Baptist missionaries took an active role in the anti-slavery movement	Where did Baptist missionaries take an active role in the anti-slavery movement?
On 20 June 1995, the Southern Baptist Convention voted to adopt a resolution renouncing its racist roots and apologizing for its past defense of slavery	When did the Southern Baptist Convention vote to adopt a resolution renouncing its racist roots?
Southern Baptist Landmarkism sought to reset the ecclesiastical separation which had characterized the old Baptist churches, in an era when inter-denominational union meetings were the order of the day	What sought to reset the ecclesiastical separation which had characterized the old Baptist churches?
Following similar conflicts over modernism, the Southern Baptist Convention adhered to conservative theology as its official position	The Southern Baptist Convention adhered to what as its official position?
Child labour refers to the employment of children in any work that deprives children of their childhood, interferes with their ability to attend regular school, and that is mentally, physically, socially or morally dangerous and harmful	What does child labour deprive children of?
In 2010, sub-saharan Africa had the highest incidence rates of child labour, with several African nations witnessing over 50 percent of children aged 5–14 working	What year did sub-saharan Africa have the highest rates of child labour?
The work of children was important in pre-industrial societies, as children needed to provide their labour for their survival and that of their group	Was there a period when child labour was essential?
Working hours were long: builders worked 64 hours a week in summer and 52 in winter, while domestic servants worked 80 hour weeks	On average how many weekly hours did a domestic servant put in?
In 19th-century Great Britain, one-third of poor families were without a breadwinner, as a result of death or abandonment, obliging many children to work from a young age	How many families were without a bread winner?
Lord Shaftesbury was an outspoken advocate of regulating child labour	During the 19th century was there any advocates for the working children?
In the early 20th century, thousands of boys were employed in glass making industries	When were young boys employed in the glass making industries?
Hines took these photographs between 1908 and 1917 as the staff photographer for the National Child Labor Committee	Where was photographer Lewis Hine employed?
Governments and reformers argued that labour in factories must be regulated and the state had an obligation to provide welfare for poor	Early 20th century states began to have a responsiblity to take care of whom?
Home-based manufacturing operations were active year round	What time were home manufactoring activities for children taking place?
Child labour is still common in many parts of the world	Does child labour exist in the 21st century?
Child labour accounts for 22% of the workforce in Asia, 32% in Africa, 17% in Latin America, 1% in the US, Canada, Europe and other wealthy nations	What country has the highest percentage of child labour?
For example, the overall extent of child labour in China is unclear due to the government categorizing child labour data as “highly secret”	Where is present day child labour stats unclear?
Maplecroft Child Labour Index 2012 survey reports 76 countries pose extreme child labour complicity risks for companies operating worldwide	According to the Maplecroft Child Labour Index how many countries post risks for child labour?
Children work because they have nothing better to do	What is the main reason for children today to be in the work force?
Some view that work is good for the character-building and skill development of children	Throughout European history was child labour seen as a positive?
They focus their study on five Asian nations including India, Pakistan, Indonesia, Thailand and Philippines	Biggeri and Mehrotra studied primarily Asia nations including India, Pakistan, Indonesia, Philippines and what other country?
Millions of children worked in colonial agricultural plantations, mines and domestic service industries	How many children were employed on colonial plantations?
In southeast Asian colonies, such as Hong Kong, child labour such as the Mui Tsai , was rationalised as a cultural tradition and ignored by British authorities	Where did the British turn a blind eye to child labour?
Many children began first working in the home to help their parents run the family farm	Where do African children find their first jobs?
Children who were born in urban areas often found themselves working for street vendors, washing cars, helping in construction sites, weaving clothing, and sometimes even working as exotic dancers	Where did children from urban areas primarily work?
Although many actions have been taken to end this epidemic, child labour in Africa is still an issue today due to the unclear definition of adolescence and how much time is needed for children to engage in activities that are crucial for their development	What country is still an issue today with regards to child labour?
From European settlement in 1888, child convicts were occasionally sent to Australia where they were made to work	In 1888 what country were child convicts sent to the most?
Child labour has been a consistent struggle for children in Brazil ever since the country was colonized on April 22, 1550 by Pedro Álvares Cabral	When was Brazil colonized?
In Brazil, the minimum working age has been identified as fourteen due to continuous constitutional amendments that occurred in 1934, 1937, and 1946	What is the min working age in Brazil?
Many children are used by drug cartels to sell and carry drugs, guns, and other illegal substances because of their perception of innocence	What do drug cartels do with child workers?
Due to poor employment opportunities for many parents, sending their children to work on farms and in factories was a way to help feed and support the family	If not forced why did children work?
Besides the obligation, many children had to help support their families financially; another factor that influenced child labour was the demographic changes that occurred in the eighteenth century	What type of support did child give to their families by working?
With such a high percentage of children working, the rising of illiteracy, and the lack of a formal education became a widespread issue for many children who worked to provide for their families	What became an issue for the working child?
In 1966, the nation adopted the UN General Assembly of the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights	When was the UN General Assembly of the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights enacted?
On 23 June 1757, the English East India Company defeated Siraj-ud-Daula, the Nawab of Bengal, in the Battle of Plassey	When did the English East India Company defeat Siraj-ud-Daula?
A variety of Indian social scientists as well as the Non-Governmental Organization have done extensive research on the numeric figures of child labour found in India and determined that India contributes to one-third of Asia’s child labour and one-fourth of the world's child labour	How much of the world's child labour does India's workers contribute to?
International influences help to encourage legal actions to be taken in India, such as the Geneva Declaration of the Right of Children Act was passed in 1924	When did the Geneva Declaration of the Right of Children Act pass?
From the 1950s on, the students were also used for unpaid work at schools, where they cleaned and performed repairs	When were students used as workers?
Out of former Soviet Union republics Uzbekistan continued and expanded the program of child labour on industrial scale to increase profits on the main source of Islam Karimov's income, cotton harvesting	What former Soviet Union continued child labour programs?
As in many other countries, child labour in Switzerland affected among the so-called Kaminfegerkinder and chidren working p	What is Kaminfegerkinder?
There were even Verdingkinder auctions where children were handed over to the farmer asking the least amount of money from the authorities, thus securing cheap labour for his farm and relieving the authority from the financial burden of looking after the children	What happened at Verdingkinder auctions?
In 1999, ILO helped lead the Worst Forms Convention 182 , which has so far been signed upon and domestically ratified by 151 countries including the United States	How many countries have signed the Worst Forms Convention 183 ?
In addition to setting the international law, the United Nations initiated International Program on the Elimination of Child Labour in 1992	What did the United Nations take charge of with regards to child labour?
In 2004, the United States passed an amendment to the Fair Labour Standards Act of 1938	What did the United States pass in 2004?
Similarly, in 1996, member countries of the European Union, per Directive 94/33/EC, agreed to a number of exceptions for young people in its child labour laws	What happened in the European Union in 1996?
Child labour, claim these activists, also leads to poor labour standards for adults, depresses the wages of adults in developing countries as well as the developed countries, and dooms the third world economies to low-skill jobs only capable of producing poor quality cheap exports	What does child labour do for adults?
According to them, child labour is merely the symptom of a greater disease named poverty	"What do some scholars agress is the ""disease"" of child labour?"
These scholars suggest, from their studies of economic and social data, that early 20th-century child labour in Europe and the United States ended in large part as a result of the economic development of the formal regulated economy, technology development and general prosperity	What caused child labour to decrease in the 20th century?
In 1998, UNICEF reported that Ivory Coast farmers used enslaved children – many from surrounding countries	Who reported Ivory Coast farmers usage of child labour?
Malian migrants have long worked on cocoa farms in the Ivory Coast, but in 2000 cocoa prices had dropped to a 10-year low and some farmers stopped paying their employees	What migrants worked on the Ivory Coast?
The cocoa industry was accused of profiting from child slavery and trafficking	What industry was accused of profiting from child labour?
In 2001, a voluntary agreement called the Harkin-Engel Protocol, was accepted by the international cocoa and chocolate industry to eliminate the worst forms of child labour, as defined by ILO's Convention 182, in West Africa	What type of agreement was the 2001 Harkin-Engel Protocol?
In 2008, Bloomberg claimed child labour in copper and cobalt mines that supplied Chinese companies in Congo	Who was the supplier of copper and cobalt to China?
BBC, in 2012, accused Glencore of using child labour in its mining and smelting operations of Africa	What did the BBC say that Glencore used child labour for in 2012?
Small-scale artisanal mining of gold is another source of dangerous child labour in poor rural areas in certain parts of the world	What is another source of mining dangerous to children workers?
In early August 2008, Iowa Labour Commissioner David Neil announced that his department had found that Agriprocessors, a kosher meatpacking company in Postville which had recently been raided by Immigration and Customs Enforcement, had employed 57 minors, some as young as 14, in violation of state law prohibiting anyone under 18 from working in a meatpacking plant	How many minors did Agriprocessors employ?
Anti-Slavery International and the Environmental Justice Foundation accused H&M and Zara of using cotton suppliers in Bangladesh	Who accused H&M of using products made by child labours?
In 2008, the BBC reported that the company Primark was using child labor in the manufacture of clothing	Who did the BBC in 2008 report as using child labor?
Primark continued to investigate the allegations for three years, concluding that BBC report was a fake	How many years was Primark investigated for?
However, others have raised concerns that boycotting products manufactured through child labour may force these children to turn to more dangerous or strenuous professions, such as prostitution or agriculture	What do some feel may happen if child labour products were completely rejected by society as a whole?
According to Milton Friedman, before the Industrial Revolution virtually all children worked in agriculture	Where did children work prior to the Industrial Revolution?
According to Thomas DeGregori, an economics professor at the University of Houston, in an article published by the Cato Institute, a libertarian think-tank operating in Washington D	Where is Thomas DeGregori from?
Domestic work is an example: all families but the rich must work at cleaning, cooking, caring, and more to maintain their homes	What is benefical work for children?
Work is undertaken from an early age by vast numbers of children in the world and may have a natural place in growing up	What is a natural process of child development?
While full-time work hinders schooling, empirical evidence is varied on the relationship between part-time work and school	What hinders schooling for child labourers?
North Carolina consists of three main geographic sections: the Atlantic Coastal Plain, which occupies the eastern 45% of the state; the Piedmont region, which contains the middle 35%; and the Appalachian Mountains and foothills	How many main geographical sections make up North Carolina?
The coastal plain transitions to the Piedmont region along the Atlantic Seaboard fall line, a line which marks the elevation at which waterfalls first appear on streams and rivers	What do you call the line that marks the elevation that waterfalls first appear on rivers?
The western section of the state is part of the Appalachian Mountain range	The weatern part of North Carolina is part of what mountain range?
The climate of the coastal plain is influenced by the Atlantic Ocean, which keeps conditions mild in winter and moderate, although humid, in summer	What ocean influinces the climate of North Carolinas coastal plain?
The Atlantic Ocean has less influence on the climate of the Piedmont region, which has hotter summers and colder winters than in the coast	What region of North Carolina has hotter summers and colder winters than the coast?
In winter, the Piedmont is colder than the coast, with temperatures usually averaging in the upper 40s–lower 50s °F during the day and often dropping below the freezing point at night	The Piedmont is colder than the coast in what season?
The Appalachian Mountains are the coolest area of the state, with temperatures averaging in the low 40s and upper 30s °F for highs in the winter and falling into the low 20s °F or lower on winter nights	What mountain range makes up the coolest part of North Carolina?
On the average, a hurricane hits the state once a decade	Hoe often do hurricanes hit North Carolina?
North Carolina averages fewer than 20 tornadoes per year, many of them produced by hurricanes or tropical storms along the coastal plain	How many tornadoes does North Carolina have per year?
Succeeding peoples, including those of the ancient Mississippian culture established by A	By 1000 AD, what culture of people settled in the Piedmont?
In June 1718 Blackbeard, aka Edward Teach, ran his flagship, the Queen Anne's Revenge, aground at Beaufort Inlet, North Carolina, in present-day Carteret County	What was another name for Blackbeard?
North Carolina became one of the English Thirteen Colonies and with the territory of South Carolina was originally known as the Province of Carolina	North carolina and Sounth Carolina together were known as what?
During colonial times, Edenton served as the state capital beginning in 1722, and New Bern was selected as the capital in 1766	What was the state capital of North Carolina in 1722?
North Carolina made the smallest per-capita contribution to the war of any state, as only 7,800 men joined the Continental Army under General George Washington; an additional 10,000 served in local militia units under such leaders as General Nathanael Greene	What state made the smallest contribution to the revolutionary war of any state?
After 1800, cotton and tobacco became important export crops	After what year did cotton and tobacco become important crops in North Carolina?
With the defeat of the Confederacy in 1865, the Reconstruction Era began	What year was the confederacy defeated?
Democrats were elected to the legislature and governor's office, but the Populists attracted voters displeased with them	What political party was elected to the legislature and Governors office?
In 1899 the state legislature passed a new constitution, with requirements for poll taxes and literacy tests for voter registration which disfranchised most black Americans in the state	What did the NC state legislature pass in 1899?
As in the rest of the former Confederacy, North Carolina had become a one-party state, dominated by the Democratic Party	What political party Dominated NC after the confederacy?
North Carolina was hard hit by the Great Depression, but the New Deal programs of Franklin D	What programs created by FDR helped North Carolina during the Great Depression?
North Carolina was inhabited for thousands of years by succeeding cultures of prehistoric indigenous cultures	What inhibited North Carolina for thousands of years?
Spanish explorers traveling inland in the 16th century met Mississippian culture people at Joara, a regional chiefdom near present-day Morganton	In the 16th century, where did Spanish explorers meet Mississipian cultureal people?
In 1584, Elizabeth I granted a charter to Sir Walter Raleigh, for whom the state capital is named, for land in present-day North Carolina 	Who is the North Carolina state capital named for?
As early as 1650, settlers from the Virginia colony moved into the area of Albemarle Sound	In 1650, settlers from what colony moved in to Albemarie Sound?
After the Spanish in the 16th century, the first permanent European settlers of North Carolina were English colonists who migrated south from Virginia	After the Spanish, who were the first Europeans to settle North Carolina?
Differences in the settlement patterns of eastern and western North Carolina, or the Low Country and uplands, affected the political, economic, and social life of the state from the 18th until the 20th century	Eastern North Carolina is also known as what?
Most of the English colonists had arrived as indentured servants, hiring themselves out as laborers for a fixed period to pay for their passage	Most English colonists arrived as what?
On April 12, 1776, the colony became the first to instruct its delegates to the Continental Congress to vote for independence from the British Crown, through the Halifax Resolves passed by the North Carolina Provincial Congress	What year did North Carolina instruct its delegates to vote for independence?
As the British Army moved north from victories in Charleston and Camden, South Carolina, the Southern Division of the Continental Army and local militia prepared to meet them	Who met the British army as they moved north?
In the Battle of Cowan's Ford, Cornwallis met resistance along the banks of the Catawba River at Cowan's Ford on February 1, 1781, in an attempt to engage General Morgan's forces during a tactical withdrawal	The Battle of Cowan's Ford was fought on the banks of what river?
On November 21, 1789, North Carolina became the twelfth state to ratify the Constitution	North Carolina was the twelth state to ratify what document?
Most were descended from free African Americans who had migrated along with neighbors from Virginia during the 18th century	Some of the free people of color migrated from what state during the 18th century?
On October 25, 1836, construction began on the Wilmington and Raleigh Railroad to connect the port city of Wilmington with the state capital of Raleigh	What was the name of the railroad that began construction in 1836?
While slaveholding was slightly less concentrated than in some Southern states, according to the 1860 census, more than 330,000 people, or 33% of the population of 992,622, were enslaved African Americans	In 1860, what percent of the North Carolina population were slaves?
In 1860, North Carolina was a slave state, in which one-third of the population was enslaved	What fraction of the population of North Carolina was enslaved in 1860?
After secession, some North Carolinians refused to support the Confederacy	Some North Carolinians still refused to support what after secession?
Confederate troops from all parts of North Carolina served in virtually all the major battles of the Army of Northern Virginia, the Confederacy's most famous army	What was the name of the Confederacys most famous army?
The first Confederate soldier to be killed in the Civil War was Private Henry Wyatt from North Carolina, in the Battle of Big Bethel in June 1861	Who was the first confederate soldier to be killed in the civil war?
While the Baptists in total have maintained the majority in this part of the country , the population in North Carolina practices a wide variety of faiths, including Judaism, Islam, Baha'i, Buddhism, and Hinduism	What is the religious name given to the part of the country that includes the Carolinas?
Currently, the rapid influx of northerners and immigrants from Latin America is steadily increasing ethnic and religious diversity: the number of Roman Catholics and Jews in the state has increased, as well as general religious diversity	Immigrants from latin America coming to North Carolina is increasing what?
"According to a Forbes article written in 2013 Employment in the ""Old North State"" has gained many different industry sectors"	What is the Nickname given to North Carolina?
Since Southern Democrat Jimmy Carter's comfortable victory in the state in 1976, the state had consistently leaned Republican in presidential elections until Democrat Barack Obama narrowly won the state in 2008	North carolina voters have leaned republican since what year?
In 2012, the state elected a Republican Governor and Lieutenant Governor for the first time in more than two decades, while also giving the Republicans veto-proof majorities in both the State House of Representatives and the State Senate	Who was elected Governor of North Carolina in 2012?
Elementary and secondary public schools are overseen by the North Carolina Department of Public Instruction	What agency oversees public schools in North Carolina?
In 1795, North Carolina opened the first public university in the United States—the University of North Carolina 	What state opened the first public university in the United States?
North Carolina is also home to many well-known private colleges and universities, including Duke University, Wake Forest University, Pfeiffer University, Lees-McRae College, Davidson College, Barton College, North Carolina Wesleyan College, Elon University, Guilford College, Livingstone College, Salem College, Shaw University , Laurel University, Meredith College, Methodist University, Belmont Abbey College , Campbell University, University of Mount Olive, Montreat College, High Point University, Lenoir-Rhyne University and Wingate University	Duke University and Shaw University are examples of what type of colleges that are in North Carolina?
North Carolina is home to three major league sports franchises: the Carolina Panthers of the National Football League and the Charlotte Hornets of the National Basketball Association are based in Charlotte, while the Raleigh-based Carolina Hurricanes play in the National Hockey League	How many major league sports franchises make North carolina home?
In addition to professional team sports, North Carolina has a strong affiliation with NASCAR and stock-car racing, with Charlotte Motor Speedway in Concord hosting two Sprint Cup Series races every year	What Speedway in North Carolina hosts two Sprint cupseries races each year?
College sports are also popular in North Carolina, with 18 schools competing at the Division I level	How many colleges compete at the Division 1 level in North Carolina?
Every year the Appalachian Mountains attract several million tourists to the Western part of the state, including the historic Biltmore Estate	How many people go to see the Appalachian Mountains each year?
The Carolina Hurricanes NHL hockey team is also located in the city	What Hockey team is located in Raleigh?
The Piedmont Triad, or center of the state, is home to Krispy Kreme, Mayberry, Texas Pete, the Lexington Barbecue Festival, and Moravian cookies	What is the center of North Carolina called?
North Carolina provides a large range of recreational activities, from swimming at the beach to skiing in the mountains	Fishing, hunting, and birdwatching are what kind of activities that are provided in North Carolina?
North Carolinians enjoy outdoor recreation utilizing numerous local bike paths, 34 state parks, and 14 national parks	Howmany state parks are in North Carolina?
The nonprofit arts and culture industry generates $1	What industry generates 1.2 billion in economic activity each year for North carolina?
SouthPark Mall in Charlotte is currently the largest in the Carolinas, with almost 2	Where is SouthPark Mall located?
A culinary staple of North Carolina is pork barbecue	What is a culinary staple of North Carolina?
Krispy Kreme, an international chain of doughnut stores, was started in North Carolina; the company's headquarters are in Winston-Salem	Krispy kreme is a chain of what kind of stores?
"Over the last decade, North Carolina has become a cultural epicenter and haven for internationally prize-winning wine , internationally prized cheeses , ""L'institut International aux Arts Gastronomiques: Conquerront Les Yanks les Truffes, January 15, 2010"" international hub for truffles , and beer making, as tobacco land has been converted to grape orchards while state laws regulating alcohol content in beer allowed a jump in ABV from 6% to 15%"	What international prize winning winery is located in North Carolina?
Tobacco was one of the first major industries to develop after the Civil War	What was one of the first growing industries to develope after the civil war?
Located in Jacksonville, Marine Corps Base Camp Lejeune, combined with nearby bases Marine Corps Air Station Cherry Point, MCAS New River, Camp Geiger, Camp Johnson, Stone Bay and Courthouse Bay, makes up the largest concentration of Marines and sailors in the world	Where is Camp Lejeune located?
The Heian period (平安時代, Heian jidai	What is the name of the last period of classical Japanese history?
The Heian period was preceded by the Nara period and began in 794 A	What was the name of the period before the Heian era?
Nominally, sovereignty lay in the emperor but in fact power was wielded by the Fujiwara nobility	What noble family wielded power during the Heian period?
When Emperor Kammu moved the capital to Heian-kyō , which remained the imperial capital for the next 1,000 years, he did so not only to strengthen imperial authority but also to improve his seat of government geopolitically	Heian was Japan's capital for how many years?
Although Kammu had abandoned universal conscription in 792, he still waged major military offensives to subjugate the Emishi, possible descendants of the displaced Jōmon, living in northern and eastern Japan	What was the name of the possible descendants of Jōmon?
Following Kammu's death in 806 and a succession struggle among his sons, two new offices were established in an effort to adjust the Taika-Taihō administrative structure	In what year did Emperor Kanmu die?
As the Soga clan had taken control of the throne in the sixth century, the Fujiwara by the ninth century had intermarried with the imperial family, and one of their members was the first head of the Emperor's Private Office	In what century did the Soga family take the throne?
Central control of Japan had continued to decline, and the Fujiwara, along with other great families and religious foundations, acquired ever larger shōen and greater wealth during the early tenth century	What type of property obtained legal status during the early Heian period?
Two types of phonetic Japanese script: katakana, a simplified script that was developed by using parts of Chinese characters, was abbreviated to hiragana, a cursive syllabary with a distinct writing method that was uniquely Japanese	What script was developed with parts of Chinese characters?
Land management became the primary occupation of the aristocracy, not so much because direct control by the imperial family or central government had declined but more from strong family solidarity and a lack of a sense of Japan as a single nation	What became the aristocracy's primary occupation?
But as the system broke down after 792, local power holders again became the primary source of military strength	The early courts' military conscription broke down around what year?
Shōen holders had access to manpower and, as they obtained improved military technology and faced worsening local conditions in the ninth century, military service became part of shōen life	Who had increased access to better military technology?
Bushi interests were diverse, cutting across old power structures to form new associations in the tenth century	Bushi formed new associations in what century?
The Fujiwara controlled the throne until the reign of Emperor Go-Sanjō , the first emperor not born of a Fujiwara mother since the ninth century	Who was the first non-Fujiwara emperor since the ninth century?
The In-no-cho filled the void left by the decline of Fujiwara power	The decline of the Fujiwara's governmental power was filled by what?
Fujiwara no Yorinaga sided with the retired emperor in a violent battle in 1156 against the heir apparent, who was supported by the Taira and Minamoto 	What member of the Fujiwara attempted to rebel in the mid-twelfth century?
Taira Kiyomori emerged as the real power in Japan following the Minamoto's destruction, and he would remain in command for the next 20 years	What military commander gained power after the fall of the Minamoto clan?
He appointed military governors, or daimyos, to rule over the provinces, and stewards, or jito to supervise public and private estates	What was the term used to describe military governors?
Buddhism began to spread throughout Japan during the Heian period, primarily through two major esoteric sects, Tendai and Shingon	What religion spread during the Heian period?
Nobles and ladies-in-waiting were expected to be well versed in the art of writing poetry as a mark of their status	What artform became a mark of status in the courts?
The lyrics of the modern Japanese national anthem, Kimi ga Yo, were written in the Heian period, as was The Tale of Genji by Murasaki Shikibu, one of the first novels ever written	What is the name of the Japanese national anthem?
The control of rice fields provided a key source of income for families such as the Fujiwara and were a fundamental base for their power	What crop was a primary source of income during the Heian period?
The major Buddhist temples in Heian-kyō and Nara also made use of the shōen	Buddhist temples in which two cities made use of the shoen system?
The game Total War: Shogun 2 has the Rise of the Samurai expansion pack as downloadable campaign	Which Total War game has an expansion set during the Heian period?
On the Origin of Species, published on 24 November 1859, is a work of scientific literature by Charles Darwin which is considered to be the foundation of evolutionary biology	When was the Origin of Species published?
There was growing support for such ideas among dissident anatomists and the general public, but during the first half of the 19th century the English scientific establishment was closely tied to the Church of England, while science was part of natural theology	Which group of scientists began to support evolutionary ideas?
The book was written for non-specialist readers and attracted widespread interest upon its publication	What section of the population was Darwin's book written for?
In later editions of the book, Darwin traced evolutionary ideas as far back as Aristotle; the text he cites is a summary by Aristotle of the ideas of the earlier Greek philosopher Empedocles	To what ancient philosopher did Darwin trace some of his evolutionary ideas?
After the turmoil of the English Civil War, the Royal Society wanted to show that science did not threaten religious and political stability	Which group wanted to assuage fears that science was a threat to religious stability?
Charles Darwin's grandfather Erasmus Darwin outlined a hypothesis of transmutation of species in the 1790s, and Jean-Baptiste Lamarck published a more developed theory in 1809	What was the name of Charles Darwin's grandfather?
"In Britain, William Paley's Natural Theology saw adaptation as evidence of beneficial ""design"" by the Creator acting through natural laws"	Whose work considered adaptation to be evidence of God's design?
Darwin went to Edinburgh University in 1825 to study medicine	When did Darwin begin attending university?
In December 1831, he joined the Beagle expedition as a gentleman naturalist and geologist	What expedition did Darwin join in 1831?
Richard Owen showed that fossils of extinct species Darwin found in South America were allied to living species on the same continent	Who showed that extinct South American fossils were related to living species?
In late September 1838, he started reading Thomas Malthus's An Essay on the Principle of Population with its statistical argument that human populations, if unrestrained, breed beyond their means and struggle to survive	Which book did Darwin begin reading in 1838?
"He tentatively wrote of his ideas to Lyell in January 1842; then in June he roughed out a 35-page ""Pencil Sketch"" of his theory"	What was the name of Darwin's 35-page writing of his theory?
In November 1844, the anonymously published popular science book Vestiges of the Natural History of Creation, written by Scottish journalist Robert Chambers, widened public interest in the concept of transmutation of species	What was the name of the anonymously published science book?
Darwin's barnacle studies convinced him that variation arose constantly and not just in response to changed circumstances	What creatures did Darwin study that made him believe variation arose constantly?
"An 1855 paper on the ""introduction"" of species, written by Alfred Russel Wallace, claimed that patterns in the geographical distribution of living and fossil species could be explained if every new species always came into existence near an already existing, closely related species"	"When was the ""Introduction of Species"" paper written?"
"Darwin was hard at work on his ""big book"" on Natural Selection, when on 18 June 1858 he received a parcel from Wallace, who stayed on the Maluku Islands "	Which book was Darwin working on when he received a package from Wallace?
Lyell discussed arrangements with publisher John Murray III, of the publishing house John Murray, who responded immediately to Darwin's letter of 31 March 1859 with an agreement to publish the book without even seeing the manuscript, and an offer to Darwin of 2⁄3 of the profits	Which publisher did Lyell convince to arrange publication of Darwin's work?
Darwin had initially decided to call his book An abstract of an Essay on the Origin of Species and Varieties Through natural selection, but with Murray's persuasion it was eventually changed to the snappier title: On the Origin of Species, with the title page adding by Means of Natural Selection, or the Preservation of Favoured Races in the Struggle for Life	What title did Darwin's book ultimately have?
"Darwin had his basic theory of natural selection ""by which to work"" by December 1838, yet almost twenty years later, when Wallace's letter arrived on 18 June 1858, Darwin was still not ready to publish his theory"	By which year did Darwin have the basic premise of his natural selection theory?
A more recent study by science historian John van Wyhe has determined that the idea that Darwin delayed publication only dates back to the 1940s, and Darwin's contemporaries thought the time he took was reasonable	What did Darwin's contemporaries think of the long delays on his publishing?
On the Origin of Species was first published on Thursday 24 November 1859, priced at fifteen shillings with a first printing of 1250 copies	What was the cost for the first published copies of On the Origin of Species?
In January 1871, George Jackson Mivart's On the Genesis of Species listed detailed arguments against natural selection, and claimed it included false metaphysics	What did On the Genesis of Species argue against natural selection?
In the United States, botanist Asa Gray an American colleague of Darwin negotiated with a Boston publisher for publication of an authorised American version, but learnt that two New York publishing firms were already planning to exploit the absence of international copyright to print Origin	Why couldn't Asa Gray use a Boston publisher for an American version of On the Origin of Species?
He welcomed the distinguished elderly naturalist and geologist Heinrich Georg Bronn, but the German translation published in 1860 imposed Bronn's own ideas, adding controversial themes that Darwin had deliberately omitted	Who was the German translator that Darwin welcomed for On the Origin of Species?
Page ii contains quotations by William Whewell and Francis Bacon on the theology of natural laws, harmonising science and religion in accordance with Isaac Newton's belief in a rational God who established a law-abiding cosmos	What was Isaac Newton's belief about God on the theory of natural law?
Chapter I covers animal husbandry and plant breeding, going back to ancient Egypt	How far back does Chapter One of On the Origin of Species go in its coverage of animal and plant species?
In Chapter II, Darwin specifies that the distinction between species and varieties is arbitrary, with experts disagreeing and changing their decisions when new forms were found	What does Darwin believe about the differences between species and varieties?
"He describes the struggle resulting from population growth: ""It is the doctrine of Malthus applied with manifold force to the whole animal and vegetable kingdoms"	What is the struggle that Darwin describes about population likened to?
Darwin takes as an example a country where a change in conditions led to extinction of some species, immigration of others and, where suitable variations occurred, descendants of some species became adapted to new conditions	What did Darwin say could happen somewhere if there is a change in conditions?
Darwin proposes sexual selection, driven by competition between males for mates, to explain sexually dimorphic features such as lion manes, deer antlers, peacock tails, bird songs, and the bright plumage of some male birds	What does Darwin say can explain diverse feature such as antlers on deer and bright feathers on certain male birds?
""" He accepted a version of the inheritance of acquired characteristics , and Chapter V discusses what he called the effects of use and disuse; he wrote that he thought ""there can be little doubt that use in our domestic animals strengthens and enlarges certain parts, and disuse diminishes them; and that such modifications are inherited"", and that this also applied in nature"	What is the theory that is based on acquired characteristics within a species?
More detail was given in Darwin's 1868 book on The Variation of Animals and Plants under Domestication, which tried to explain heredity through his hypothesis of pangenesis	When was The Variation of Animals and Plants under Domestication by Charles Darwin published?
Chapter VI begins by saying the next three chapters will address possible objections to the theory, the first being that often no intermediate forms between closely related species are found, though the theory implies such forms must have existed	What is one possible objection to the theory of integrated variation?
He presented flying squirrels, and flying lemurs as examples of how bats might have evolved from non-flying ancestors	What are some flying animals that Darwin thought might have evolved from bats?
He suggested that bees that make hexagonal cells evolved in steps from bees that made round cells, under pressure from natural selection to economise wax	How does Darwin theorize that instincts have evolved in bees?
Chapter VIII addresses the idea that species had special characteristics that prevented hybrids from being fertile in order to preserve separately created species	Why would hybrids have characteristics that keep them from being fertile?
In the sixth edition Darwin inserted a new chapter VII to respond to criticisms of earlier editions, including the objection that many features of organisms were not adaptive and could not have been produced by natural selection	Why did Darwin introduce a new chapter in On the Origin of Species in the sixth edition?
Darwin borrowed Charles Lyell's argument in Principles of Geology that the record is extremely imperfect as fossilisation is a very rare occurrence, spread over vast periods of time; since few areas had been geologically explored, there could only be fragmentary knowledge of geological formations, and fossil collections were very poor	Whose argument did Darwin borrow that geological record is very imperfect, because fossilization is rare?
Darwin expected species to change slowly, but not at the same rate – some organisms such as Lingula were unchanged since the earliest fossils	How did Darwin expect species to change and evolve?
Chapter XI deals with evidence from biogeography, starting with the observation that differences in flora and fauna from separate regions cannot be explained by environmental differences alone; South America, Africa, and Australia all have regions with similar climates at similar latitudes, but those regions have very different plants and animals	Why couldn't differences in flora and fauna be explained by differences in regions alone?
Darwin discusses morphology, including the importance of homologous structures	What theory does Darwin discuss that is related to the importance of homologous structures?
The final chapter reviews points from earlier chapters, and Darwin concludes by hoping that his theory might produce revolutionary changes in many fields of natural history	What hopes does Darwin have for his theory in the natural history fields?
Darwin's aims were twofold: to show that species had not been separately created, and to show that natural selection had been the chief agent of change	What were Darwin's two important aims about evolution?
Darwin presents supporting facts drawn from many disciplines, showing that his theory could explain a myriad of observations from many fields of natural history that were inexplicable under the alternate concept that species had been individually created	What does Darwin do to show that his theory can support many theories that could not be explained by individual creation of species?
Unlike the still-popular Vestiges, it avoided the narrative style of the historical novel and cosmological speculation, though the closing sentence clearly hinted at cosmic progression	What did On Origin of Species avoid in order to raise its chance of being taken seriously?
The book aroused international interest and a widespread debate, with no sharp line between scientific issues and ideological, social and religious implications	Why did On the Origin of Species likely raise so much interest and debate?
"Scientific readers were already aware of arguments that species changed through processes that were subject to laws of nature, but the transmutational ideas of Lamarck and the vague ""law of development"" of Vestiges had not found scientific favour"	What was the general response from scientific readers to Lamarck's written work?
Evolution had less obvious applications to anatomy and morphology, and at first had little impact on the research of the anatomist Thomas Henry Huxley	Who supported Darwin's theories on evolution despite it having little impact on his own research?
The leading naturalist in Britain was the anatomist Richard Owen, an idealist who had shifted to the view in the 1850s that the history of life was the gradual unfolding of a divine plan	Who was the leading naturalist in Britain?
Evolutionary ideas, although not natural selection, were accepted by German biologists accustomed to ideas of homology in morphology from Goethe's Metamorphosis of Plants and from their long tradition of comparative anatomy	While evolutionary ideas were accepted by German biologists, what was not?
French-speaking naturalists in several countries showed appreciation of the much modified French translation by Clémence Royer, but Darwin's ideas had little impact in France, where any scientists supporting evolutionary ideas opted for a form of Lamarckism	What was the general feeling toward Darwin's ideas in France?
There were serious scientific objections to the process of natural selection as the key mechanism of evolution, including Karl von Nägeli's insistence that a trivial characteristic with no adaptive advantage could not be developed by selection	What justification for his objections to the process of natural selection did Karl von Nägel give?
"The range of evolutionary theories during ""the eclipse of Darwinism"" included forms of ""saltationism"" in which new species were thought to arise through ""jumps"" rather than gradual adaptation, forms of orthogenesis claiming that species had an inherent tendency to change in a particular direction, and forms of neo-Lamarckism in which inheritance of acquired characteristics led to progress"	What was meant by the term saltationism?
While some, like Spencer, used analogy from natural selection as an argument against government intervention in the economy to benefit the poor, others, including Alfred Russel Wallace, argued that action was needed to correct social and economic inequities to level the playing field before natural selection could improve humanity further	Who believed that action needed to be taken to level out the social and economic playing field before natural selection could occur to improve humanity?
Natural theology was not a unified doctrine, and while some such as Louis Agassiz were strongly opposed to the ideas in the book, others sought a reconciliation in which evolution was seen as purposeful	What view did Louis Agassiz have of On the Origin of Species?
Theistic evolution became a popular compromise, and St	What was a way that theologians compromised with the information in Darwin's book?
This conflict could be reconciled by supposing there was some supernatural intervention on the path leading to humans, or viewing evolution as a purposeful and progressive ascent to mankind's position at the head of nature	How did people attempt to rationalize or reconcile the concept of natural selection?
Darwin's theory of evolution by natural selection, with its tree-like model of branching common descent, has become the unifying theory of the life sciences	What branching common descent theory has become the most unifying one of the life sciences?
The text of Origin itself has been subject to much analysis including a variorum, detailing the changes made in every edition, first published in 1959, and a concordance, an exhaustive external index published in 1981	What has been created in 1959 and filled with information about changes in every edition of On the Origin of Species?
The dissolution of the Soviet Union was formally enacted on December 26, 1991, as a result of the declaration no	On what date did the Soviet Union dissolve?
Mikhail Gorbachev was elected General Secretary by the Politburo on March 11, 1985, three hours after predecessor Konstantin Chernenko's death at age 73	Who was General Secretary prior to Mikhail Gorbachev?
This liberalization, however, fostered nationalist movements and ethnic disputes within the Soviet Union	What were some of the downsides of the more liberal Soviet Union?
In May 1985, Gorbachev delivered a speech in Leningrad advocating reforms and an anti-alcohol campaign to tackle widespread alcoholism	When was Gorbachev's speech addressing alcohol abuse?
On July 1, 1985, Gorbachev promoted Eduard Shevardnadze, First Secretary of the Georgian Communist Party, to full member of the Politburo, and the following day appointed him minister of foreign affairs, replacing longtime Foreign Minister Andrei Gromyko	When did Eduard Shevardnadze gain full membership in the Politburo?
On September 27, Nikolai Ryzhkov replaced 79-year-old Nikolai Tikhonov as Chairman of the Council of Ministers, effectively the Soviet prime minister, and on October 14, Nikolai Talyzin replaced Nikolai Baibakov as chairman of the State Planning Committee 	Who became Chairman of the Council of Ministers in 1985?
The CTAG Helsinki-86 was founded in July 1986 in the Latvian port town of Liepāja by three workers: Linards Grantiņš, Raimonds Bitenieks, and Mārtiņš Bariss	What group was the first to oppose the Soviet government publicly?
"The ""Jeltoqsan"" of 1986 were riots in Alma-Ata, Kazakhstan, sparked by Gorbachev's dismissal of Dinmukhamed Konayev, the First Secretary of the Communist Party of Kazakhstan and an ethnic Kazakh, who was replaced with Gennady Kolbin, an outsider from the Russian SFSR"	What is the English translation of the word Jeltoqsan?
On the next day, December 18, protests turned into civil unrest as clashes between troops, volunteers, militia units, and Kazakh students turned into a wide-scale confrontation	Who was demonstrating?
For the first time, the Communist Party leader had appealed over the heads of Central Committee members for the people's support in exchange for expansion of liberties	Whose support did Gorbachev seek in order to increase liberties?
"On February 7, 1987, dozens of political prisoners were freed in the first group release since Khrushchev's ""thaw"" in the mid-1950s"	When were the prisoners set free?
On September 10, 1987, after a lecture from hardliner Yegor Ligachev at the Politburo for allowing these two unsanctioned demonstrations in Moscow, Boris Yeltsin wrote a letter of resignation to Gorbachev, who had been holidaying on the Black Sea	Who disagreed vocally about the demonstrations being permitted?
On June 14, 1987, about 5,000 people gathered again at Freedom Monument in Riga, and laid flowers to commemorate the anniversary of Stalin's mass deportation of Latvians in 1941	Where did the demonstrators meet in June of 1987?
In spring 1987, a protest movement arose against new phosphate mines in Estonia	What was being protested in Estonia?
On October 17, 1987, about 3,000 Armenians demonstrated in Yerevan complaining about the condition of Lake Sevan, the Nairit chemicals plant, and the Metsamor Nuclear Power Plant, and air pollution in Yerevan	When was the Yerevan demonstration?
On July 1, 1988, the fourth and last day of a bruising 19th Party Conference, Gorbachev won the backing of the tired delegates for his last-minute proposal to create a new supreme legislative body called the Congress of People's Deputies	What ws the final day of the 19th Party Conference?
On November 16, 1988, the Supreme Soviet of the Estonian SSR adopted a declaration of national sovereignty under which Estonian laws would take precedence over those of the Soviet Union	Whose laws would take precedence according to the declaration of national sovereignty?
"On February 22, 1988, in what became known as the ""Askeran clash"", two Azerbaijanis were killed by Karabakh police"	How many Azerbaijanis died in the Askeran clash?
He instead sacked the Communist Party Leaders in both Republics – on May 21, 1988, Kamran Baghirov was replaced by Abdulrahman Vezirov as First Secretary of the Azerbaijan Communist Party	Who did Gorbachev make First Secretary of the Azerbaijan Communist Party in 1988?
Daily demonstrations, which began in the Armenian capital Yerevan on February 18, initially attracted few people, but each day the Nagorno-Karabakh issue became increasingly prominent and numbers swelled	Where were the first demonstrations in Armenia?
Armenia, formerly one of the most loyal Republics, had suddenly turned into the leading rebel republic	How many protesters died in the airport violence?
Beginning in February 1988, the Democratic Movement of Moldova organized public meetings, demonstrations, and song festivals, which gradually grew in size and intensity	When did the Democratic Movement of Moldova start operating?
"On April 26, 1988, about 500 people participated in a march organized by the Ukrainian Cultural Club on Kiev's Khreschatyk Street to mark the second anniversary of the Chernobyl nuclear disaster, carrying placards with slogans like ""Openness and Democracy to the End"	What group was responsible for the April 25, 1988 protest?
On June 21, a rally in Lviv attracted 50,000 people who had heard about a revised delegate list	How many people attended the Lviv rally?
On November 13, 1988, approximately 10,000 people attended an officially sanctioned meeting organized by the cultural heritage organization Spadschyna, the Kyiv University student club Hromada, and the environmental groups Zelenyi Svit and Noosfera, to focus on ecological issues	What is the English translation of Zelenyi Svit?
The Partyja BPF was established in 1988 as a political party and cultural movement for democracy and independence, à la the Baltic republics’ popular fronts	When did The Partyja BDF start?
Spring 1989 saw the people of the Soviet Union exercising a democratic choice, albeit limited, for the first time since 1917, when they elected the new Congress of People's Deputies	What was elected in 1989?
In district races, run-off elections were held in 76 constituencies on April 2 and 9 and fresh elections were organized on April 20 and 14 to May 23, in the 199 remaining constituencies where the required absolute majority was not attained	How many constituencies had run-off elections?
In the first session of the new Congress of People's Deputies, from May 25 to June 9, hardliners retained control but reformers used the legislature as a platform for debate and criticism – which was broadcast live and uncensored	Who used the legislative session to debate and criticize?
On October 25, 1989, the Supreme Soviet voted to eliminate special seats for the Communist Party and other official organizations in national and local elections, responding to sharp popular criticism that such reserved slots were undemocratic	What did the Communist Party lose on October 25, 1989 with regards to elections?
Any moves towards real independence were suppressed by military force – in the Hungarian Revolution of 1956 and the Prague Spring in 1968	What year did the Prague Spring take place?
An estimated 2 million people joined hands to form a human chain extending 600 kilometres across Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania, which had been forcibly reincorporated into the Soviet Union in 1944	How many people were involved in the Baltic Chain?
"On December 7, 1989, the Communist Party of Lithuania under the leadership of Algirdas Brazauskas, split from the Communist Party of the Soviet Union and abandoned its claim to have a constitutional ""leading role"" in politics"	Who was in charge of Lithuania's Communist Party in 1989
On July 16, 1989, the Popular Front of Azerbaijan held its first congress and elected Abulfaz Elchibey, who would become President, as its Chairman	When was Abulfaz Elchibey elected to Chairman of the Popular Front?
In a new and effective tactic, the Popular Front launched a rail blockade of Armenia, which caused petrol and food shortages because 85 percent of Armenia's freight came from Azerbaijan	What did the Popular Front do to Armenian railways?
On April 7, 1989, Soviet troops and armored personnel carriers were sent to Tbilisi after more than 100,000 people protested in front of Communist Party headquarters with banners calling for Georgia to secede from the Soviet Union and for Abkhazia to be fully integrated into Georgia	What did the protesters want Georgia to leave?
In Ukraine, Lviv and Kiev celebrated Ukrainian Independence Day on January 22, 1989	What is commemorated on January 22 in Ukraine?
"In late February, large public rallies took place in Kiev to protest the election laws, on the eve of the March 26 elections to the USSR Congress of People's Deputies, and to call for the resignation of the first secretary of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Volodymyr Scherbytsky, lampooned as ""the mastodon of stagnation"	What were people protesting in Kiev during the last part of February?
On March 4, 1989, the Memorial Society, committed to honoring the victims of Stalinism and cleansing society of Soviet practices, was founded in Kiev	What ideology's victims were being honored by the Memorial Society?
From April 20–23, 1989, pre-election meetings were held in Lviv for four consecutive days, drawing crowds of up to 25,000	How many people attended the Lviv pre-election meetings?
On May 27, 1989, the founding conference of the Lviv regional Memorial Society was held	When did the Lviv regional Memorial Society have its first conference?
On September 2, 1989, tens of thousands across Ukraine protested a draft election law that reserved special seats for the Communist Party and for other official organizations: 50,000 in Lviv, 40,000 in Kiev, 10,000 in Zhytomyr, 5,000 each in Dniprodzerzhynsk and Chervonohrad, and 2,000 in Kharkiv	What were the protesters on September 2 demonstrating against?
"On October 1, 1989, a peaceful demonstration of 10,000 to 15,000 people was violently dispersed by the militia in front of Lviv's Druzhba Stadium, where a concert celebrating the Soviet ""reunification"" of Ukrainian lands was being held"	How many people demonstrated on October 1?
On October 26, twenty factories in Lviv held strikes and meetings to protest the police brutality of October 1 and the authorities' unwillingness to prosecute those responsible	How many factories had strikes on October 26?
On October 28, 1989, the Ukrainian Supreme Soviet decreed that effective January 1, 1990, Ukrainian would be the official language of Ukraine, while Russian would be used for communication between ethnic groups	What was made Ukraine's official language in 1990?
In mid-November The Shevchenko Ukrainian Language Society was officially registered	When was The Shevchenko Ukrainian Language Society made official?
On September 30, 1989, thousands of Belorussians, denouncing local leaders, marched through Minsk to demand additional cleanup of the 1986 Chernobyl disaster site in Ukraine	What did the Belorussians wish to be cleaned up?
Thousands of Soviet troops were sent to the Fergana Valley, southeast of the Uzbek capital Tashkent, to re-establish order after clashes in which local Uzbeks hunted down members of the Meskhetian minority in several days of rioting between June 4–11, 1989; about 100 people were killed	Who went to the Fergana Valley to restore order?
In Kazakhstan on June 19, 1989, young men carrying guns, firebombs, iron bars and stones rioted in Zhanaozen, causing a number of deaths	Where was the fatal June 19th riots?
Ethnic tensions had escalated between the Armenians and Azerbaijanis in spring and summer 1988	Which two groups saw increasing ethnic conflicts in 1988?
Following the hardliners' takeover, the September 30, 1990 elections were characterized by intimidation; several Popular Front candidates were jailed, two were murdered, and unabashed ballot stuffing took place even in the presence of Western observers	What party's candidates were murdered in the September 30 elections?
On January 21, 1990, Rukh organized a 300-mile human chain between Kiev, Lviv, and Ivano-Frankivsk	How many miles long was the human chain?
George Cathedral to the Ukrainian Greek Catholic Church	Who was voted to get their cathedral back in 1990?
On June 22, 1990, Volodymyr Ivashko withdrew his candidacy for leader of the Communist Party of Ukraine in view of his new position in parliament	Who was elected to be the new deputy general secretary of the Communist Part of the Soviet Union in July?
On July 23, 1990, Leonid Kravchuk was elected to replace Ivashko as parliament chairman	Who would succeed Ivashko as the chairman of Parliament?
Sophia’s Cathedral as newly elected Russian Orthodox Church Patriarch Aleksei and Metropolitan Filaret celebrated liturgy at the shrine	Who were in the cathedral at the time of the protest?
On January 13, 1991, Soviet troops, along with the KGB Spetsnaz Alpha Group, stormed the Vilnius TV Tower in Lithuania to suppress the independence movement	What was attacked by Soviet troops on January 13?
Faced with growing separatism, Gorbachev sought to restructure the Soviet Union into a less centralized state	What was Gorbachev attempting to decentralize? 
More radical reformists were increasingly convinced that a rapid transition to a market economy was required, even if the eventual outcome meant the disintegration of the Soviet Union into several independent states	What did radicals want to change the economy to?
Thousands of Muscovites came out to defend the White House , the symbolic seat of Russian sovereignty at the time	Who arrived to protect the White House?
On December 8, the leaders of Russia, Ukraine, and Belarus secretly met in Belavezhskaya Pushcha, in western Belarus, and signed the Belavezha Accords, which proclaimed the Soviet Union had ceased to exist and announced formation of the Commonwealth of Independent States as a looser association to take its place	Where was the secret meeting of the leaders?
On December 12, the Supreme Soviet of the Russian SFSR formally ratified the Belavezha Accords and renounced the 1922 Union Treaty	When were the Belavezha Accords ratified?
However, on December 21, 1991, representatives of 11 of the 12 former republics – all except Georgia – signed the Alma-Ata Protocol, which confirmed the dissolution of the Union and formally established the CIS	Which republic did not sign the Alma-Ata Protocol?
"In a nationally televised speech early in the morning of December 25, 1991, Gorbachev resigned as president of the USSR – or, as he put it, ""I hereby discontinue my activities at the post of President of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics"	When did Gorbachev resign?
Moscow time, after Gorbachev left the Kremlin, the Soviet flag was lowered for the last time, and the Russian tricolor was raised in its place, symbolically marking the end of the Soviet Union	What went down after Gorbachev departed from the Kremlin?
Notably, Russia was authorized to assume the Soviet Union's UN membership, including its permanent seat on the Security Council	Which country took over the Soviet Union's UN membership?
On November 18, 1990, the Ukrainian Autocephalous Orthodox Church enthroned Mstyslav as Patriarch of Kiev and all Ukraine during ceremonies at Saint Sophia's Cathedral	Who was set up as Patriarch of Kiev and all Ukraine on the 18th of November?
According to the canonical gospels, Jesus, whom Christians believe to be the Son of God as well as the Messiah , was arrested, tried, and sentenced by Pontius Pilate to be scourged, and finally crucified by the Romans	Who was the person that tried Jesus?
The baptism of Jesus and his crucifixion are considered to be two historically certain facts about Jesus	What is one of the historical certain facts about Jesus?
Although almost all ancient sources relating to crucifixion are literary, the 1968 archeological discovery just northeast of Jerusalem of the body of a crucified man dated to the 1st century provided good confirmatory evidence that crucifixions occurred during the Roman period roughly according to the manner in which the crucifixion of Jesus is described in the gospels	Are all sources of the crucification literary?
The earliest detailed accounts of the death of Jesus are contained in the four canonical gospels	What holds the records of the death of Jesus?
Combining statements in the canonical Gospels produces the following account: Jesus was arrested in Gethsemane following the Last Supper with the Twelve Apostles, and then stood trial before the Sanhedrin , Pontius Pilate , and Herod Antipas , before being handed over for crucifixion by the chief priests of the Jews	Where was Jesus arrested?
Once at Golgotha, Jesus was offered wine mixed with gall to drink	What was Jesus offered to drink after his arrest?
For instance, only Matthew's gospel mentions an earthquake, resurrected saints who went to the city and that Roman soldiers were assigned to guard the tomb, while Mark is the only one to state the actual time of the crucifixion and the centurion's report of Jesus' death	What detail of Jesus's Crucifiction was only found in Matthew's Gospel?
According to the First Epistle to the Corinthians (1 Cor	Which Epistle details the raising of Jesus?
In Mark, Jesus is crucified along with two rebels, and the day goes dark for three hours	Who was crucified with Jesus per Mark?
An early non-Christian reference to the crucifixion of Jesus is likely to be Mara Bar-Serapion's letter to his son, written sometime after AD 73 but before the 3rd century AD	Where can an early non-Christian reference be found to the Crucifixion?
The consensus of modern scholarship is that the New Testament accounts represent a crucifixion occurring on a Friday, but a Thursday or Wednesday crucifixion have also been proposed	What day is presumed the Crucifixion happened?
, based on the use of Roman timekeeping in John but not in Mark, yet others have rejected the arguments	Why do scholars say the times are different depending on the gospel it's written in?
,	What time did Pilate hold court in the morning?
"Luke's gospel also describes an interaction between Jesus and the women among the crowd of mourners following him, quoting Jesus as saying ""Daughters of Jerusalem, do not weep for me, but weep for yourselves and for your children"	Who described an interaction between Jesus on the cross and women?
"Calvary as an English name for the place is derived from the Latin word for skull , which is used in the Vulgate translation of ""place of a skull"", the explanation given in all four Gospels of the Aramaic word Gûlgaltâ which was the name of the place where Jesus was crucified"	Where was Jesus Crucified?
The Gospel of Matthew describes many women at the crucifixion, some of whom are named in the Gospels	Matthew described that who was present at the Crucifixion?
Whereas most Christians believe the gibbet on which Jesus was executed was the traditional two-beamed cross, the Jehovah's Witnesses hold the view that a single upright stake was used	What kind of cross is generally believed that Jesus was crucified on?
W	What is the definition of koine?
For instance, the Epistle of Barnabas, which was certainly earlier than 135, and may have been of the 1st century AD, the time when the gospel accounts of the death of Jesus were written, likened it to the letter T , and to the position assumed by Moses in Exodus 17:11–12	What Epistle described the cross?
F	For how long was the Greek alphabet used?
The assumption of the use of a two-beamed cross does not determine the number of nails used in the crucifixion and some theories suggest three nails while others suggest four nails	How many nails were suggested they used for the crucifixion?
The placing of the nails in the hands, or the wrists is also uncertain	Where were the nails placed?
Another issue has been the use of a hypopodium as a standing platform to support the feet, given that the hands may not have been able to support the weight	What was said to be used as a platform for crucifixion?
The only words of Jesus on the cross in the Mark and Matthew accounts, this is a quotation of Psalm 22	What Psalm gives the words of Jesus on the cross?
Some Christian writers considered the possibility that pagan commentators may have mentioned this event, mistaking it for a solar eclipse - although this would have been impossible during the Passover, which takes place at the full moon	As what was the event mistaken by some pagans?
"Sextus Julius Africanus further refers to the writings of historian Thallus: ""This darkness Thallus, in the third book of his History, calls, as appears to me without reason, an eclipse of the sun"	Which historian was referenced for the reports?
Waddington of Oxford University considered the possibility that a lunar, rather than solar, eclipse might have taken place	What is recently considered the type of eclipse that occurred?
Modern biblical scholarship treats the account in the synoptic gospels as a literary creation by the author of the Mark Gospel, amended in the Luke and Matthew accounts, intended to heighten the importance of what they saw as a theologically significant event, and not intended to be taken literally	Who created the account of Jesus?
In his book The Crucifixion of Jesus, physician and forensic pathologist Frederick Zugibe studied the likely circumstances of the death of Jesus in great detail	Who wrote The Crucifixion of Jesus?
Christians believe that Jesus’ death was instrumental in restoring humankind to relationship with God	What do Christians believe regarding Jesus' death?
"In Johannine ""agent Christology"" the submission of Jesus to crucifixion is a sacrifice made as an agent of God or servant of God, for the sake of eventual victory"	What book details the submission of Jesus to being crucified?
Paul's Christology has a specific focus on the death and resurrection of Jesus	Who's Christology focuses on the death and Resurrection?
"John Calvin supported the ""agent of God"" Christology and argued that in his trial in Pilate's Court Jesus could have successfully argued for his innocence, but instead submitted to crucifixion in obedience to the Father"	What did John Calvin claim Jesus could have done?
Jesus' death and resurrection underpin a variety of theological interpretations as to how salvation is granted to humanity	What does Jesus' death and Resurrection support?
The presence of the Virgin Mary under the cross[Jn	Who was present under the cross?
Civil law states do not tend to have singular highest courts	What kinds of governed nations may not have a specific, individual high court?
"Some countries have multiple ""supreme courts"" whose respective jurisdictions have different geographical extents, or which are restricted to particular areas of law"	Countries with more than one supreme court may divide their primacy by what factors?
In jurisdictions using a common law system, the doctrine of stare decisis applies, whereby the principles applied by the supreme court in its decisions are binding upon all lower courts; this is intended to apply a uniform interpretation and implementation of the law	What term describes a system where the supreme court's decisions are binding over the lower courts?
In Canada, the Supreme Court of Canada was established in 1875 but only became the highest court in the country in 1949 when the right of appeal to the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council was abolished	When was Canada's Supreme Court first established?
In Hong Kong, the Supreme Court of Hong Kong was the final court of appeal during its colonial times which ended with transfer of sovereignty in 1997	When did Britain formally surrender sovreignty over Hong Kong?
In India, the Supreme Court of India was created on January 28, 1950 after adoption of the Constitution	On what date was India's Supreme Court established?
The Supreme Court is the highest court in Ireland	What is the highest ranking court in Ireland?
The Supreme Court sits in Jerusalem	Where is Israel's Supreme Court located?
The new Supreme Court of New Zealand was officially established at the beginning of 2004, although it did not come into operation until July	When did New Zealand's Supreme Court come into being?
FATA, Azad Kashmir, Northern Areas and Islamabad Capital Territory ) the Supreme Court's jurisdiction is rather limited and varies from territory to territory; it can hear appeals only of a constitutional nature from FATA and Northern Areas, while ICT generally functions the same as provinces	What are some of the territories within Pakistan?
The Supreme Court of the United Kingdom is the ultimate court for criminal and civil matters in England, Wales and Northern Ireland and for civil matters in Scotland	The Supreme Court of the United Kingdom holds Supremacy in what jurisdictions?
The titles of state supreme court vary, which can cause confusion between jurisdictions because one state may use a name for its highest court that another uses for a lower court	What may cause some confusion in the US regarding state supreme courts?
In Austria, the Austrian Constitution of 1920 introduced judicial review of legislative acts for their constitutionality	What document established judicial oversight of legislation in Austria?
In Brazil, the Supreme Federal Tribunal is the highest court	What is the highest court in Brazil?
Final interpretation of and amendments to the German Constitution, the Grundgesetz, is the task of the Bundesverfassungsgericht , which is the de facto highest German court, as it can declare both federal and state legislation ineffective, and has the power to overrule decisions of all other federal courts, despite not being a regular court of appeals on itself in the German court system	What is Germany's constitution called?
When it comes to civil and criminal cases, the Bundesgerichtshof is at the top of the hierarchy of courts	The German high court has jurisdiction over what two areas of law?
"Its decisions, known as ""arresten"", are absolutely final"	Decisions of the Dutch Supreme Court are called what?
While the Philippines is generally considered a civil law nation, its Supreme Court is heavily modelled after the American Supreme Court	What type of legal system is the Philippines officially?
Spanish Supreme Court is the highest court for all cases in Spain 	The Spanish Supreme Court hears all cases related to law in what areas?
In Sweden, the Supreme Court and the Supreme Administrative Court respectively function as the highest courts of the land	Sweden's two high courts are what?
In Sri Lanka, the Supreme Court of Sri Lanka was created in 1972 after the adoption of a new Constitution	When was the Supreme Court of Sri Lanka created?
"In South Africa, a ""two apex"" system existed from 1994 to 2013"	South Africa used what type of system to determine it's high courts until 2013?
In most nations with constitutions modelled after the Soviet Union, the legislature was given the power of being the court of last resort	What nation's model gives the power of the high court to the legistlature?
Given a manuscript copy, several or many copies, but not the original document, the textual critic might seek to reconstruct the original text as closely as possible	What type of documents does a textual critic usually analyze?
Interest in applying textual criticism to the Qur'an has also developed after the discovery of the Sana'a manuscripts in 1972, which possibly date back to the 7–8th centuries	Interest in an analysis of what text has arose in the early 1970's?
In the English language, the works of Shakespeare have been a particularly fertile ground for textual criticism—both because the texts, as transmitted, contain a considerable amount of variation, and because the effort and expense of producing superior editions of his works have always been widely viewed as worthwhile	What is one reasons Shakespeare is a good place to focus on textual criticism?
In such a situation, a key objective becomes the identification of the first exemplar before any split in the tradition	What is the first goal when attempting to analyze a new text?
 This contains the text that the author has determined most closely approximates the original, and is accompanied by an apparatus criticus or critical apparatus	"What is included in or accompanies in ""critical edition""?"
Before mechanical printing, literature was copied by hand, and many variations were introduced by copyists	Why are there multiple variations of texts before the advent of the printing press?
"When comparing different documents, or ""witnesses"", of a single, original text, the observed differences are called variant readings, or simply variants or readings"	Different documents that represent the same original text are called what?
The collation of all known variants of a text is referred to as a variorum, namely a work of textual criticism whereby all variations and emendations are set side by side so that a reader can track how textual decisions have been made in the preparation of a text for publication	What is a variorum?
Eclectic readings also normally give an impression of the number of witnesses to each available reading	What is often included in an eclectic reading?
For the same reasons, the most geographically diverse witnesses are preferred	What characteristic of a compilation of witnesses is the most beneficial to a textual critic?
Two common considerations have the Latin names lectio brevior and lectio difficilior 	"Define ""lectio brevior"""
"They proposed nine critical rules, including a version of Bengel's rule, ""The reading is less likely to be original that shows a disposition to smooth away difficulties"	How many rules were proposed in the 1881 publication of the New Testament in Greek?
Since the canons of criticism are highly susceptible to interpretation, and at times even contradict each other, they may be employed to justify a result that fits the textual critic's aesthetic or theological agenda	Is textual criticism immune to bias on the part of the critic?
Stemmatics, stemmology or stemmatology is a rigorous approach to textual criticism	What is stemmatics?
The steps of examinatio and emendatio resemble copy-text editing	Which steps most closely resembles copy-text editing?
He suspected that editors tended to favor trees with two branches, as this would maximize the opportunities for editorial judgment 	To what did Joseph Bédier attribute the prevalence of the stemmatic method?
"The stemmatic method's final step is emendatio, also sometimes referred to as ""conjectural emendation"	What is the last step in the stemmatic method?
"McKerrow introduced the term copy-text in his 1904 edition of the works of Thomas Nashe, defining it as ""the text used in each particular case as the basis of mine"	When was the term copy-text introduced?
""" But, fearing the arbitrary exercise of editorial judgment, McKerrow stated that, having concluded that a later edition had substantive revisions attributable to the author, ""we must accept all the alterations of that edition, saving any which seem obvious blunders or misprints"	What did McKerrow concede about his new copy-text method?
""" The ""exactly balanced"" variants are said to be indifferent"	What do editors call variants that are exactly balanced?
""" For works where an author's manuscript survived – a case Greg had not considered – Bowers concluded that the manuscript should generally serve as copy-text"	What will an editor do in the case where an author's work was not wiped out?
"McKerrow had articulated textual criticism's goal in terms of ""our ideal of an author's fair copy of his work in its final state"""	What are editors trying to ultimately accomplish?
Bowers and Tanselle argue for rejecting textual variants that an author inserted at the suggestion of others	Who argued against works where the author listens to input from others?
To secure commercial publication in 1896, Crane agreed to remove profanity, but he also made stylistic revisions	What alterations did Crane make to secure commercial publication?
Some critics believe that a clear-text edition gives the edited text too great a prominence, relegating textual variants to appendices that are difficult to use, and suggesting a greater sense of certainty about the established text than it deserves	Are appendices easy to use for the average reader?
In biology, the technique is used to determine the evolutionary relationships between different species	What is the biological basis for Cladistics?
Although some earlier unpublished studies had been prepared, not until the early 1970s was true textual criticism applied to the Book of Mormon	When did textual criticism applied to the Book of Mormon?
By 1979, with the establishment of the Foundation for Ancient Research and Mormon Studies as a California non-profit research institution, an effort led by Robert F	What is FARMS?
In 1988, with that preliminary phase of the project completed, Professor Skousen took over as editor and head of the FARMS Critical Text of the Book of Mormon Project and proceeded to gather still scattered fragments of the Original Manuscript of the Book of Mormon and to have advanced photographic techniques applied to obtain fine readings from otherwise unreadable pages and fragments	When was phase one completed?
Shemaryahu Talmon, who summarized the amount of consensus and genetic relation to the Urtext of the Hebrew Bible, concluded that major divergences which intrinsically affect the sense are extremely rare	How common are variations in text that alter the meaning of the Urtext of the Hebrew Bible?
There are far fewer witnesses to classical texts than to the Bible, so scholars can use stemmatics and, in some cases, copy text editing	Does the Bible or Plato's Republic have more witnesses?
Scientific and critical editions can be protected by copyright as works of authorship if enough creativity/originality is provided	What is the criteria for copyright?
Phonograph records are generally described by their diameter in inches , the rotational speed in rpm at which they are played , and their time capacity resulting from a combination of those parameters ; their reproductive quality or level of fidelity (high-fidelity, orthophonic, full-range, etc	What does LP stand for when it comes to time capacity?
The phonograph disc record was the primary medium used for music reproduction until late in the 20th century, replacing the phonograph cylinder record–with which it had co-existed from the late 1880s through to the 1920s–by the late 1920s	What was the primary use of a phonographic disc record?
The phonautograph, patented by Léon Scott in 1857, used a vibrating diaphragm and stylus to graphically record sound waves as tracings on sheets of paper, purely for visual analysis and without any intent of playing them back	What was the original intent of the phonautograph?
In 1877, Thomas Edison invented the phonograph	In what year did Thomas Edison invent the phonograph?
"Lateral-cut disc records were developed in the United States by Emile Berliner, who named his system the ""gramophone"", distinguishing it from Edison's wax cylinder ""phonograph"" and Columbia's wax cylinder ""graphophone"""	What is the name of lateral cut disc records?
Despite these improvements, during the 1910s discs decisively won this early format war, although Edison continued to produce new Blue Amberol cylinders for an ever-dwindling customer base until late in 1929	What was the name of the discs Edison introduced in 1909?
Sensitivity and frequency range were poor, and frequency response was very irregular, giving acoustic recordings an instantly recognizable tonal quality	What were two drawback of early recordings?
""" For fading instrumental parts in and out while recording, some performers were placed on a moveable platform, which could draw the performer nearer or further away as required"	What tool was used to improve sound quality in early recordings for special effects?
During the first half of the 1920s, engineers at Western Electric, as well as independent inventors such as Orlando Marsh, developed technology for capturing sound with a microphone, amplifying it with vacuum tubes, then using the amplified signal to drive an electromagnetic recording head	What was an early took used to amplify sounds?
Electrical recording preceded electrical home reproduction because of the initial high cost of the new system	What was a drawback of early home recording systems?
The earliest disc records were made of various materials including hard rubber	What materials were discs made of in 1889-1894?
Although inexpensive and commercially successful at first, they soon fell victim to the Great Depression and production in the US ended in 1932	What was a major downfall of the success of Durium records?
In 1931, RCA Victor introduced their vinyl-based Victrolac compound as a material for some unusual-format and special-purpose records	What material was used by RCA Victor for special purpose records?
By 1910 the 10-inch (25	What was the most popular sized disc by 1910?
The playing time of a phonograph record depended on the turntable speed and the groove spacing	What factors would effect playing time of a phonograph?
Because it ran 7:57, longer than both sides of a standard 78 rpm 10-inch record, it was released on Columbia's Masterwork label as two sides of a 12-inch record	On which label did Frank Sinatra release his recording of Soliloquy?
German record company Odeon is often said to have pioneered the album in 1909 when it released the Nutcracker Suite by Tchaikovsky on 4 double-sided discs in a specially designed package	What was unique about Odeon's 1909 release of the Nutcracker Suite?
By about 1910, bound collections of empty sleeves with a paperboard or leather cover, similar to a photograph album, were sold as record albums that customers could use to store their records 	When could record album covers first be found?
In the 1930s, record companies began issuing collections of 78 rpm records by one performer or of one type of music in specially assembled albums, typically with artwork on the front cover and liner notes on the back or inside cover	When were albums as we currently know them widely released?
For collectable or nostalgia purposes, or for the benefit of higher-quality audio playback provided by the 78 rpm speed with newer vinyl records and their lightweight stylus pickups, a small number of 78 rpm records have been released since the major labels ceased production	What are reasons for recent releases of 78 rpm speed vinyls?
In 1968, Reprise planned to release a series of 78 rpm singles from their artists on their label at the time, called the Reprise Speed Series	In what year did Reprise plan to release a series of 78 rpm singles?
In the 1990s Rhino Records issued a series of boxed sets of 78 rpm reissues of early rock and roll hits, intended for owners of vintage jukeboxes	When was the release by Rhino Records of 78 rpm for jukebox owners?
These revolutionary discs were designed for playback at 33 1⁄3 rpm and pressed on a 30 cm diameter flexible plastic disc, with a duration of about ten minutes playing time per side	What was the playing time of program-transcription discs?
Vinyl's lower surface noise level than shellac was not forgotten, nor was its durability	What was a benefit of using vinyl over shellac?
It took about eight years of study, except when it was suspended because of World War II	What caused a delay in the production of high quality records?
The 45 rpm player included a changing mechanism that allowed multiple disks to be stacked, much as a conventional changer handled 78s	What did RCA release to complete against Columbia's LP?
At least one manufacturer in the early 1920s, World Records, produced records that played at a constant linear velocity, controlled by Noel Pemberton Billing's patented add-on governor device	Who had made an attempt in the 1920s to release a long play time recording?
This motor ran at 3600 rpm, such that a 46:1 gear ratio would produce 78	What gear ration creates 78.26 rpm?
The 78 rpm was overtaken in popularity by the 45 rpm in the late 1950s, as teenagers became increasingly affluent	When did the 45 rpm gain popularity over the 78 rpm
By the end of 1957, RCA Victor announced that 78s accounted for less than 10% of Presley's singles sales, essentially announcing the death throes of the 78 rpm format	What percentage of Elvis Presley's single sales were of 78s?
The 33 1⁄3 rpm LP format was developed by Columbia Records and marketed in June 1948	Who developed the 33 1/3 rpm LP?
Subsequently, the 16 2⁄3 rpm speed was used for narrated publications for the blind and visually impaired, and were never widely commercially available, although it was common to see new turntable models with a 16 rpm speed setting produced as late as the 1970s	What was 16 2/3 rpm speed used for?
The commercial rivalry between RCA Victor and Columbia Records led to RCA Victor's introduction of what it had intended to be a competing vinyl format, the 7-inch 45 rpm disc	"Which two companies were involved in the ""War of the Speeds""?"
Eventually the 12-inch 33 1⁄3 rpm LP prevailed as the predominant format for musical albums, and 10-inch LPs were no longer issued	What format of LPs was discontinued?
The 45 rpm discs also came in a variety known as extended play , which achieved up to 10–15 minutes play at the expense of attenuating the sound to reduce the width required by the groove	What do the initials EP stand for?
"the common home record player or ""stereo"" would typically have had these features: a three- or four-speed player ; with changer, a tall spindle that would hold several records and automatically drop a new record on top of the previous one when it had finished playing, a combination cartridge with both 78 and microgroove styli and a way to flip between the two; and some kind of adapter for playing the 45s with their larger center hole"	What three speeds were sound on most home stereos in the mid 1950's?
, Australia and New Zealand, or as in the United Kingdom, especially before the 1970s, the disc had a small hole within a circular central section held only by three or four lands so that it could be easily punched out if desired 	Wy did records outside of the US often have small holes with the ability to punch out the center?
"The term ""high fidelity"" was coined in the 1920s by some manufacturers of radio receivers and phonographs to differentiate their better-sounding products claimed as providing ""perfect"" sound reproduction"	What term was coined to differentiate better sounding products in the 1920s?
"The ultimately dominant ""45/45"" stereophonic record system was invented by Alan Blumlein of EMI in 1931 and patented the same year"	What did Alan Blumlein event?
The development of quadraphonic records was announced in 1971	What was the newest break through in home sound systems in 1971?
(A further problem was that no cutting heads were available that could handle the HF information	What was a major issue with CD-4 technology?
Robert Fine, Mercury Records initiated a minimalist single microphone monaural recording technique in 1951	For which company did C. Robert Fine work for?
These techniques, marketed, to name two, as the CBS DisComputer and Teldec Direct Metal Mastering, were used to reduce inner-groove distortion	What technique were used to reduce inner-groove distortion?
The introduction, drum-breaks, or choruses of a track were indicated by widely separated grooves, giving a visual cue to DJs mixing the records	How did Disco Eye-Cued system benefit DJs?
These were completely incompatible with standard record playback preamplifiers, relying on the dbx compandor encoding/decoding scheme to greatly increase dynamic range 	What was required for quality playback of DBX recordings?
ELPJ, a Japanese-based company, sells a laser turntable that uses a laser to read vinyl discs optically, without physical contact	What company out of Japan offered laser turntables that read vinyl discs optically?
In some ways similar to the laser turntable is the IRENE scanning machine for disc records, which images with microphotography in two dimensions, invented by a team of physicists at Lawrence Berkeley Laboratories	Who is Irene?
An LP can play for up to 30 minutes per side, though most played for about 22 minutes per side, bringing the total playing time of a typical LP recording to about forty-five minutes	What is a typical max playing time of an LP?
However, yellow and deep red were continued until about 1952	Which colors of 45 were available as late as 1952 before being discontinued?
The normal commercial disc is engraved with two sound-bearing concentric spiral grooves, one on each side, running from the outside edge towards the center	In which direction does the groove in a normal disc run?
Towards the center, at the end of the groove, there is another wide-pitched section known as the lead-out	What is a 'lead out'?
When auto-changing turntables were commonplace, records were typically pressed with a raised outer edge and a raised label area, allowing records to be stacked onto each other without the delicate grooves coming into contact, reducing the risk of damage	Where were records made with raised label areas?
Many collectors prefer to have heavyweight vinyl albums, which have been reported to have better sound than normal vinyl because of their higher tolerance against deformation caused by normal play	What is the material preference of collectors?
"The ""orange peel"" effect on vinyl records is caused by worn molds"	What is an effect of using worn molds when casting records?
"When only a few hundred discs are required, instead of electroforming a ""son"" , the ""father"" is removed of its silver and converted into a stamper"	What is the two step process?
Breakage was very common in the shellac era	What was a known issue of using shellac to make records?
Dust and scratches cause audio clicks and pops	What causes clicks and pops on vinyl records?
Vinyl records can be warped by heat, improper storage, exposure to sunlight, or manufacturing defects such as excessively tight plastic shrinkwrap on the album cover	What causes warping in vinyl records?
Distortion towards the end of the side is likely to become more apparent as record wear increases	When is distortion most common on a gramophone record?
Another reason for very low frequency material can be a warped disk: its undulations produce frequencies of only a few hertz and present day amplifiers have large power bandwidths	What would be a cause of low frequency sounds when listening?
With low frequencies, the stylus must swing a long way from side to side, requiring the groove to be wide, taking up more space and limiting the playing time of the record	What is a limitation of low frequency recordings?
Miller in 1934 reported that when complementary boost at the turnover point was used in radio broadcasts of records, the reproduction was more realistic and many of the musical instruments stood out in their true form	What is found when a complementary boost is used at the bass turnover point?
Voigt showed that the early Wente-style condenser microphones contributed to a 4 to 6 dB midrange brilliance or pre-emphasis in the recording chain	How were Wente-Style condenser microphones helpful?
Over the years a variety of record equalization practices emerged and there was no industry standard	What was the industry standard in Europe for record equalization?
Heretofore, electrical recording technology from company to company was considered a proprietary art all the way back to the 1925 Western Electric licensed method used by Columbia and Victor	How far back did records show the art of sound recordings?
Efforts were started in 1942 to standardize within the National Association of Broadcasters , later known as the National Association of Radio and Television Broadcasters 	Who made the move to standardize recordings?
The lateral cut NAB curve was remarkably similar to the NBC Orthacoustic curve that evolved from practices within the National Broadcasting Company since the mid-1930s	How did the NBC Othacoustic curve relate to the NAB curve?
"He traced RCA Victor characteristics back to the Western Electric ""rubber line"" recorder in 1925 up to the early 1950s laying claim to long-held recording practices and reasons for major changes in the intervening years"	How far back could these recording practices be traced?
Toward the end of the acoustic era, there were many fine examples of recordings made with horns	What was the quality of sound recordings made with horns at the end of the acoustic era?
Alternatively, the Wente style condenser microphone used with the Western Electric licensed recording method had a brilliant midrange and was prone to overloading from sibilants in speech, but generally it gave more accurate reproduction than carbon microphones	What technique offered realistic sounds during playback?
The Victor Orthophonic phonograph was a prime example where such playback was expected	What is one example of an acoustic phonograph on which one would listen to electric recordings?
The dynamic or moving coil microphone was introduced around 1930 and the velocity or ribbon microphone in 1932	What are two examples of high quality microphones?
This was especially true after the invention of the variable reluctance magnetic pickup cartridge by General Electric in the 1940s when high quality cuts were played on well-designed audio systems	What was a benefit of the use of magnetic pickup cartridge?
"In the early 1930s Bell Telephone Laboratories and Western Electric announced the total reinvention of disc recording: the Western Electric Wide Range System, ""The New Voice of Action"""	When was the Western Electric System introduced?
The chief advantage claimed was more grooves per inch that could be crowded together, resulting in longer playback time	What was a benefit of vertical groove cuts?
Vinyl pressings were made with stampers from master cuts that were electroplated in vacuo by means of gold sputtering	What were used to make vinyl pressings?
Bachman in 1949 made it possible for a great variety of record companies to get into the business of making long playing records	When was the business booming for do it yourself sound fanatics?
According to Red Book specifications, the compact disc has a frequency response of 20 Hz up to 22,050 Hz, and most CD players measure flat within a fraction of a decibel from at least 20 Hz to 20 kHz at full output	What is generally the lowest sound a human can hear?
A record cutter would engrave the grooves into the master disc	Who would engrave the master disc of a vinyl record?
The medium needs to be kept clean, but alcohol should only be used on PVC or optical media, not on 78s	Should alcohol be used to clean gramophone recordings?
Anyone can do this using a standard record player with a suitable pickup, a phono-preamp and a typical personal computer	Is it difficult to transfer recording from historic interest to newer technologies?
Vinyl records experienced a sudden decline in popularity between 1988 and 1991, when the major label distributors restricted their return policies, which retailers had been relying on to maintain and swap out stocks of relatively unpopular titles	What was a major cause of declined vinyl sales?
Vinyl records continue to be manufactured and sold today, especially by independent rock bands and labels, although record sales are considered to be a niche market composed of audiophiles, collectors, and DJs	Are records generally out of print as of date?
This is because for disc jockeys , vinyl has an advantage over the CD: direct manipulation of the medium	What is a reason a DJ would prefer vinyl to CD?
In 2014 artist Jack White sold 40,000 copies of his second solo release, Lazaretto, on vinyl	Whom set the most recent sales record of vinyl records since 1991?
Pictures and Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer 	Warner Bros. pictures before what year are part of the Turner Entertainment library?
In 1986, eight years before the launch of Turner Classic Movies, Ted Turner acquired the Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer film studio for $1	In what year did Ted Turner buy Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer?
Before the creation of Turner Classic Movies, films from Turner's library of movies aired on the Turner Broadcasting System's advertiser-supported cable network TNT – along with colorized versions of black-and-white classics such as The Maltese Falcon	On what network did Turner Entertainment's film library air prior to the creation of TCM?
At the time of its launch, TCM was available to approximately one million cable television subscribers	How many subscribers had access to TCM upon it launch?
In 1996, Turner Broadcasting System merged with Time Warner, which besides placing Turner Classic Movies and Warner Bros	With what company did Turner Broadcasting Systems merge in 1996?
In 2000, TCM started the annual Young Composers Film Competition, inviting aspiring composers to participate in a judged competition that offers the winner of each year's competition the opportunity to score a restored, feature-length silent film as a grand prize, mentored by a well-known composer, with the new work subsequently premiering on the network	In what year did TCM begin the Young Composers Film Competition?
In 2008, TCM won a Peabody Award for excellence in broadcasting	In what year did TCM receive a Peabody Award?
In addition to this, extended breaks between features are filled with theatrically released movie trailers and classic short subjects – from series such as The Passing Parade, Crime Does Not Pay, Pete Smith Specialties, and Robert Benchley – under the banner name TCM Extras 	What were TCM Extras previously known as?
TCM's film content has remained mostly uncut and uncolorized , depending upon the original content of movies, particularly movies released after the 1968 implementation of the Motion Picture Association of America's ratings system and the concurrent disestablishment of the Motion Picture Production Code	In what year did the Motion Picture Association of America introduce its rating system?
The network's programming season runs from February until the following March of each year when a retrospective of Oscar-winning and Oscar-nominated movies is shown, called 31 Days of Oscar	What retrospective of the Oscars is shown yearly on TCM?
Entertainment, Turner Classic Movies also maintains movie licensing rights agreements with Universal Studios, Paramount Pictures, 20th Century Fox, Walt Disney Studios , Sony Pictures Entertainment , StudioCanal, and Janus Films	Who owns the Selznick International Pictures library?
/NBCUniversal Television Distribution, while Paramount holds on to most of its post-1949 releases, which are distributed for television by Trifecta Entertainment & Media	Who owns Paramount?
"Eastern Time) are presented by film historian Robert Osborne on Sunday through Wednesday evenings – with Osborne only presenting primetime films on weekends – and Ben Mankiewicz presenting only late evening films on Thursdays, and the ""Silent Sunday Nights"" and ""TCM Imports"" blocks on Sundays"	Who presents films on TCM on Wednesday nights?
"TCM regularly airs a ""Star of the Month"" throughout the year on Wednesdays starting at 8:00 p"	On what day of the week are Star of the Month films aired?
"Turner Classic Movies also airs regularly scheduled weekly film blocks, which are periodically preempted for special themed month-long or seasonal scheduling events, such as the ""31 Days of Oscar"" film series in the month preceding the Academy Awards and the month-long ""Summer Under the Stars"" in August; all featured programming has their own distinctive feature presentation bumper for the particular scheduled presentation"	When does 31 Days of Oscar occur?
"The channel also broadcasts two movie blocks during the late evening hours each Sunday: ""Silent Sunday Nights"", which features silent films from the United States and abroad, usually in the latest restored version and often with new musical scores; and ""TCM Imports"" ), a weekly presentation of films originally released in foreign countries"	What movie block shows silent films?
"Each August, Turner Classic Movies suspends its regular schedule for a special month of film marathons called ""Summer Under the Stars"", which features entire daily schedules devoted to the work of a particular actor, with movies and specials that pertain to the star of the day"	In what month does the Summer Under the Stars event take place?
""", a youth-oriented version of its weekly series The Essentials , which included such family-themed films as National Velvet, Captains Courageous and Yours, Mine and Ours, as well as more eclectic selections as Sherlock, Jr"	Along with Chris O'Donnell, who was the original host of Essentials Jr.?
The network aired the film series Screened Out in 2007 and Religion on Film in 2005	In what year did Screened Out appear?
"In December 1994, TCM debuted ""TCM Remembers"", a tribute to recently deceased notable film personalities that occasionally airs during promotional breaks between films"	In what month and year did TCM Remembers premiere?
The TCM Vault Collection consists of several different DVD collections of rare classic films that have been licensed, remastered and released by Turner Classic Movies 	Through what company is the TCM Vault Collection released?
In October 2015, TCM announced the launch of the TCM Wineclub, in which they teamed up with Laithwaite to provide a line of mail-order wines from famous vineyards such as famed writer-director-producer Francis Ford Coppola's winery	What month and year saw the introduction of the TCM Wineclub?
In Canada, TCM began to be carried on Shaw Cable and satellite provider Shaw Direct in 2005	What Canadian cable provider first carried Turner Classic Movies?
Hindu philosophy refers to a group of darśanas that emerged in ancient India	What was the origin of Hindu philosophy?
Scholars have debated the relationship and differences within āstika philosophies and with nāstika philosophies, starting with the writings of Indologists and Orientalists of the 18th and 19th centuries, which were themselves derived from limited availability of Indian literature and medieval doxographies	What have scholars argued about with regards to nastika and astika philosophies?
Hindu philosophy also includes several sub-schools of theistic philosophies that integrate ideas from two or more of the six orthodox philosophies, such as the realism of the Nyāya, the naturalism of the Vaiśeṣika, the dualism of the Sāṅkhya, the monism and knowledge of Self as essential to liberation of Advaita, the self-discipline of yoga and the asceticism and elements of theistic ideas	How many orthodox philosophies are in Hindu?
Ancient and medieval Hindu texts identify six pramāṇas as correct means of accurate knowledge and truths: pratyakṣa , anumāṇa , upamāṇa , arthāpatti , anupalabdi and śabda Each of these are further categorized in terms of conditionality, completeness, confidence and possibility of error, by each school	What do ancient Hindu writings identify as the means to knowledge and truth?
Samkhya school espouses dualism between consciousness and matter	Which Hindu school stresses dualism between consciousness and matter?
Guna, it states, are of three types: Sattva being good, compassionate, illuminating, positive, and constructive; Rajas guna is one of activity, chaotic, passion, impulsive, potentially good or bad; and Tamas being the quality of darkness, ignorance, destructive, lethargic, negative	How many types of Guna exist in Hindu philosophy?
In Indian philosophy, Yoga is among other things, the name of one of the six āstika philosophical schools	Of what is yoga a part in Indian philosophy?
The Yoga school builds on the Samkhya school theory that jñāna is a sufficient means to moksha	What principle does yoga use from Samkhya?
The Vaiśeṣika philosophy is a naturalist school; it is a form of atomism in natural philosophy	What philosophy is a naturalist school?
Vaiśeṣika metaphysical premises are founded on a form of atomism, that the reality is composed of four substances 	According to Vaisesika philosophy, how many substances comprise reality?
In its metaphysics, Nyāya school is closer to the Vaiśeṣika school than others	What school of thought is closest to Vaisesika school?
The Mīmāṃsā school has several subschools defined by epistemology	How many ways does the Mimamsa separate into subschools?
The metaphysics in Mīmāṃsā school consists of both atheistic and theistic doctrines and the school showed little interest in systematic examination of the existence of God	What type of doctrines are contained in the Mimamsa school?
Mīmāṃsā gave rise to the study of philology and the philosophy of language	To what study did Mimamsa give rise?
The Vedānta school built upon the teachings of the Upanishads and Brahma Sutras from the first millennium BCE and is the most developed and well-known of the Hindu schools	On which sutras did the Vedanta school focus?
The emergence of Vedanta school represented a period when a more knowledge-centered understanding began to emerge	What did the Vedanta school represent in Hindu philosophy?
"Advaita literally means ""not two, sole, unity"""	What means 
According to this school of Vedanta, all reality is Brahman, and there exists nothing whatsoever which is not Brahman	According to a school of Vedanta, what is all reality?
1037–1137) was the foremost proponent of the philosophy of Viśiṣṭādvaita or qualified non-dualism	What is the philosophy of dualism?
Dvaita Vedanta is a dualistic interpretation of the Vedas, espouses dualism by theorizing the existence of two separate realities	Of what does Dvaita Vedanta theorize the existence?
Dvaitādvaita was proposed by Nimbarka, a 13th-century Vaishnava Philosopher from the Andhra region	What early philosopher proposed Dvaitadvaita?
However, the Śvetāśvatara Upanishad is considered to be the earliest textual exposition of a systematic philosophy of Shaivism	In what text is Shaivism recounted?
Pāśupata Shaivism is the oldest of the major Shaiva schools	What is the oldest school of Shaivism?
Pāśupatas divided the created world into the insentient and the sentient	What group divided the world into two parts?
Even though, both Kashmir Shaivism and Advaita Vedanta are non-dual philosophies which give primacy to Universal Consciousness , in Kashmir Shavisim, as opposed to Advaita, all things are a manifestation of this Consciousness	What type of philosophy does both Kasmir Shaivism and Advaita Vedanta share?
The United States is a two-party system, with its two most powerful parties being the Democratic Party and the Republican Party	What are the two most powerful political parties in the United States?
The first political factions, cohering around a basic, if fluid, set of principles emerged from the Exclusion Crisis and Glorious Revolution in late-17th-century England	Around what time did the first political factions start to emerge?
A major influence on the Whigs were the liberal political ideas of John Locke, and the concepts of universal rights employed by Locke and Algernon Sidney	Who's liberal political ideas influenced the Whigs?
"At times they cooperated with the ""Opposition Whigs"", Whigs who were in opposition to the Whig government; however, the ideological gap between the Tories and the Opposition Whigs prevented them from coalescing as a single party"	Who did the Tories oppose?
The first such party was the Rockingham Whigs under the leadership of Charles Watson-Wentworth and the intellectual guidance of the political philosopher Edmund Burke	Who was the first distinctive Whig party that emerged from the chaos?
The modern Conservative Party was created out of the 'Pittite' Tories of the early 19th century	What was the modern Conservative party created from?
Although the Founding Fathers of the United States did not originally intend for American politics to be partisan, early political controversies in the 1790s over the extent of federal government powers saw the emergence of two proto-political parties- the Federalist Party and the Democratic-Republican Party, which were championed by Framers Alexander Hamilton and James Madison, respectively	What were the two proto-political parties?
The Home Rule League Party, campaigning for Home Rule for Ireland in the British Parliament was fundamentally changed by the great Irish political leader Charles Stewart Parnell in the 1880s	Who was the leader of the Irish political party in the 1880s?
A political party is typically led by a party leader , a party secretary , party treasurer and party chair 	Do political parties have a Party leader?
When a party becomes the largest party not part of the Government, the party's parliamentary group forms the Official Opposition, with Official Opposition frontbench team members often forming the Official Opposition Shadow cabinet	When does a party form an official opposition?
The freedom to form, declare membership in, or campaign for candidates from a political party is considered a measurement of a state's adherence to liberal democracy as a political value	What is considered a measurement of a state's support to liberal democracy?
"Furthermore, in the case of far-right, far-left and regionalism parties in the national parliaments of much of the European Union, mainstream political parties may form an informal cordon sanitarian which applies a policy of non-cooperation towards those ""Outsider Parties"" present in the legislature which are viewed as 'anti-system' or otherwise unacceptable for government"	Will mainstream political parties not cooperate towards outsider parties if they are too extream?
In a nonpartisan system, no official political parties exist, sometimes reflecting legal restrictions on political parties	Do official political parties exist in a nonpartisan system?
In one-party systems, one political party is legally allowed to hold effective power	In what systems is the political party allowed to legally hold effective power?
In dominant-party systems, opposition parties are allowed, and there may be even a deeply established democratic tradition, but other parties are widely considered to have no real chance of gaining power	When are opposition parties allowed?
The United States has become essentially a two-party system	What type of party system is the United States?
The UK political system, while technically a multi-party system, has functioned generally as a two-party system; since the 1920s the two largest political parties have been the Conservative Party and the Labour Party	What are the two largest political parties in the UK?
More commonly, in cases where there are three or more parties, no one party is likely to gain power alone, and parties work with each other to form coalition governments	In which case are parties not likely to gain power on their own?
Political parties, still called factions by some, especially those in the governmental apparatus, are lobbied vigorously by organizations, businesses and special interest groups such as trade unions	What are called factions by some people?
Along with the increased scrutiny of donations there has been a long-term decline in party memberships in most western democracies which itself places more strains on funding	Why did parties that relied on donations or subscriptions run into problems?
In the United Kingdom, it has been alleged that peerages have been awarded to contributors to party funds, the benefactors becoming members of the House of Lords and thus being in a position to participate in legislating	In the United Kingdom, what is awarded to people who help fund the parties?
There are two broad categories of public funding, direct, which entails a monetary transfer to a party, and indirect, which includes broadcasting time on state media, use of the mail service or supplies	What are the two categories of public funding?
In fledgling democracies funding can also be provided by foreign aid	What can also be provided by foreign aid?
Green is the color for green parties, Islamist parties, Nordic agrarian parties and Irish republican parties	What parties is the color green for?
Since 2000, red has become associated with the right-wing Republican Party and blue with the left-wing Democratic Party	What is the color red associated with?
During the 19th and 20th century, many national political parties organized themselves into international organizations along similar policy lines	When did political parties organize themselves into international organizations?
French political scientist Maurice Duverger drew a distinction between cadre parties and mass parties	Who drew a difference between cadre parties and mass parties?
A cappella music is specifically group or solo singing without instrumental accompaniment, or a piece intended to be performed in this way	What does A cappella mean in the Italian language?
A cappella music was originally used in religious music, especially church music as well as anasheed and zemirot	What form of music was A cappella predominately used for in its early years?
The polyphony of Christian a cappella music began to develop in Europe around the late 15th century, with compositions by Josquin des Prez	Who was a known composer of A cappella music in the 15th century?
In keeping with this philosophy, early Russian musika which started appearing in the late 17th century, in what was known as khorovïye kontsertï made a cappella adaptations of Venetian-styled pieces, such as the treatise, Grammatika musikiyskaya , by Nikolai Diletsky	When did Russian musika show up?
Sacred Harp, a type of folk music, is an a cappella style of religious singing with shape notes, usually sung at singing conventions	What is the name of the religious a cappella style used with shape notes?
They were considered a Catholic innovation, not widely practiced until the 18th century, and were opposed vigorously in worship by a number of Protestant Reformers, including Martin Luther , Ulrich Zwingli, John Calvin and John Wesley 	Why were instruments more unwelcome to Christians?
Those who subscribe to this interpretation believe that since the Christian scriptures never counter instrumental language with any negative judgment on instruments, opposition to instruments instead comes from an interpretation of history	What does the rejection of instruments in Christian music likely stem from?
T	During what time period was opposition to instruments being used in all settings discovered?
T	When is information about the use of instruments for Christian worship written?
The use of musical instruments is traditionally forbidden on the Sabbath out of concern that players would be tempted to repair their instruments, which is forbidden on those days	On what day is using musical instruments not allowed? 
The popularization of the Jewish chant may be found in the writings of the Jewish philosopher Philo, born 20 BCE	What is the name of the philosopher who praised music without instruments?
A strong and prominent a cappella tradition was begun in the midwest part of the United States in 1911 by F	When did a cappella begin to take hold in the United States?
"In July 1943, as a result of the American Federation of Musicians boycott of US recording studios, the a cappella vocal group The Song Spinners had a best-seller with ""Comin' In On A Wing And A Prayer"""	What a cappella group rose to popularity in 1943?
Contemporary a cappella includes many vocal groups and bands who add vocal percussion or beatboxing to create a pop/rock/gospel sound, in some cases very similar to bands with instruments	In place of instruments, what do some modern a cappella groups implement?
A cappella has been used as the sole orchestration for original works of musical theater that have had commercial runs Off-Broadway only four times	How many works of a cappella in musical theater have been successful in Off-Broadway productions?
The a cappella musical Perfect Harmony, a comedy about two high school a cappella groups vying to win the National championship, made its Off Broadway debut at Theatre Row’s Acorn Theatre on 42nd Street in New York City in October, 2010 after a successful out-of-town run at the Stoneham Theatre, in Stoneham, Massachusetts	What Off-Broadway theater did Perfect Harmony open at?
The fourth a cappella musical to appear Off-Broadway, In Transit, premiered 5 October 2010 and was produced by Primary Stages with book, music, and lyrics by Kristen Anderson-Lopez, James-Allen Ford, Russ Kaplan, and Sara Wordsworth	What is the name of the a cappella musical that debuted Off-Broadway in the same year as Perfect Harmony?
Barbershop music is one of several uniquely American art forms	What type of a cappella music is specific to American culture?
In 1945, the first formal women's barbershop organization, Sweet Adelines, was formed	What is the name of the first female barbershop organization?
The reasons for the strong Swedish dominance are as explained by Richard Sparks manifold; suffice to say here that there is a long-standing tradition, an unsusually large proportion of the populations regularly sing in choirs, the Swedish choral director Eric Ericson had an enormous impact on a cappella choral development not only in Sweden but around the world, and finally there are a large number of very popular primary and secondary schools with high admission standards based on auditions that combine a rigid academic regimen with high level choral singing on every school day, a system that started with Adolf Fredrik's Music School in Stockholm in 1939 but has spread over the country	What is the name of the Swedish man known for being a large influence to a cappella across the world?
The Rensselyrics of Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute , established in 1873 is perhaps the oldest known collegiate a cappella group	What is the previous name of oldest recorded college a cappella group?
The first South Asian a cappella group was Penn Masala, founded in 1996 at the University of Pennsylvania	Whas is the name of the ethnic a capella group founded at the University of Pennsylvania in 1996?
Increased interest in modern a cappella can be seen in the growth of awards such as the Contemporary A Cappella Recording Awards and competitions such as the International Championship of Collegiate A Cappella for college groups and the Harmony Sweepstakes for all groups	What popular a capella competition is not specific to college groups?
In addition to singing words, some a cappella singers also emulate instrumentation by reproducing instrumental sounds with their vocal cords and mouth	What do some a capella groups do other than sing words?
The Swingle Singers used nonsense words to sound like instruments, but have been known to produce non-verbal versions of musical instruments	What did the Swingle Singers primarily use to emulate musical instruments?
The Order of Preachers , more commonly known after the 15th century as the Dominican Order or Dominicans, is a Roman Catholic religious order founded by the Spanish priest Saint Dominic de Guzman in France and approved by Pope Honorius III on 22 December 1216	What is the Latin for Order of Preachers?
Founded to preach the Gospel and to combat heresy, the teaching activity of the order and its scholastic organization placed the Preachers in the forefront of the intellectual life of the Middle Ages	During what time period did the Dominican Order do its best work?
Men of God were no longer expected to stay behind the walls of a cloister	During the Middle Ages, who was no longer expected to stay behind walls away from the common man?
Dominic sought to establish a new kind of order, one that would bring the dedication and systematic education of the older monastic orders like the Benedictines to bear on the religious problems of the burgeoning population of cities, but with more organizational flexibility than either monastic orders or the secular clergy	The Dominican Order received influence from what monastic order?
Dominic inspired his followers with loyalty to learning and virtue, a deep recognition of the spiritual power of worldly deprivation and the religious state, and a highly developed governmental structure	How did Dominic inspire his followers?
As an adolescent, he had a particular love of theology and the Scriptures became the foundation of his spirituality	What subject did Dominic particularly love?
In 1203, Dominic joined Prior Diego de Acebo on an embassy to Denmark for the monarchy of Spain, to arrange the marriage between the son of King Alfonso VIII of Castile and a niece of King Valdemar II of Denmark	With whom did Dominic travel with to Denmark?
Prior Diego saw immediately one of the paramount reasons for the spread of the unorthodox movement: the representatives of the Holy Church acted and moved with an offensive amount of pomp and ceremony	How did Prior Diego think the members of the Holy Church acted?
Dominic became the spiritual father to several Albigensian women he had reconciled to the faith, and in 1206 he established them in a convent in Prouille	In what year did Dominic establish a convent?
In July 1215, with the approbation of Bishop Foulques of Toulouse, Dominic ordered his followers into an institutional life	In what year did Dominic order his followers into an institutional life?
Dominic's education at Palencia gave him the knowledge he needed to overcome the Manicheans	Dominic studied in what city?
In 1219 Pope Honorius III invited Saint Dominic and his companions to take up residence at the ancient Roman basilica of Santa Sabina, which they did by early 1220	Where did Dominic and his followers live during early 1220?
The Dominican friars quickly spread, including to England, where they appeared in Oxford in 1221	What European country did the Dominican Friars quickly expand to?
"(See German mysticism, which has also been called ""Dominican mysticism"	"The term ""Dominican mysticism"" is also knows as what?"
At the same time the order found itself face to face with the Renaissance	What historical period gave the Dominican Order a challenge?
During this critical period, the number of Preachers seems never to have sunk below 3,500	In 1876, how many preachers were expelled from the Dominican Order?
In the revival movement France held a foremost place, owing to the reputation and convincing power of the orator, Jean-Baptiste Henri Lacordaire 	What country held a prominent place in the revival movement?
The province of France has produced a large number of preachers	What country has produced a large number of preachers?
Such is the Biblical school at Jerusalem, open to the religious of the order and to secular clerics, which publishes the Revue Biblique	What school publishes the Revue Biblique?
Associates do not take vows, but rather make a commitment to be partners with vowed members, and to share the mission and charism of the Dominican Family in their own lives, families, churches, neighborhoods, workplaces, and cities	What do present day Dominican Order associates do?
The spiritual tradition of Dominic's Order is punctuated not only by charity, study and preaching, but also by instances of mystical union	The tradition of the Dominican Order includes what?
Dominic's search for a close relationship with God was determined and unceasing	What did Dominic greatly struggle with?
a man of prayer who utilized the full resources of the learning available to him to preach, to teach, and even materially to assist those searching for the truth found in the gospel of Christ	What spirit did Dominic give to his followers?
Humbert of Romans, the master general of the order from 1254 to 1263, was a great administrator, as well as preacher and writer	Who was the Master general of the Dominican Order during the mid 1200s?
"His writings are permeated with ""religious good sense,"" and he used uncomplicated language that could edify even the weakest member"	What did Humbert use to teach even weak members of the Dominican Order?
"Another who contributed significantly to the spirituality of the order is Albertus Magnus, the only person of the period to be given the appellation ""Great"""	The Dominican Order was also greatly helped by what German friar?
One of Albert's greatest contributions was his study of Dionysus the Areopagite, a mystical theologian whose words left an indelible imprint in the medieval period	Albert Magnus studied Dionysus during what historical period?
Albertus Magnus championed the idea, drawn from Dionysus, that positive knowledge of God is possible, but obscure	What idea did Albertus champion?
Albert the Great wrote that wisdom and understanding enhance one's faith in God	What enhances man's faith in God according to Albertus Magnus?
Meekness and charity guide Christians to acknowledge that they are nothing without the One who created them, sustains them, and guides them	What virtue guides Christians in their understanding of God?
The Europeans of the order embraced ecstatic mysticism on a grand scale and looked to a union with the Creator	What did the Europeans of the Dominican Order bring to the group?
Although Albertus Magnus did much to instill mysticism in the Order of Preachers, it is a concept that reaches back to the Hebrew Bible	The search for mysticism in the Dominican Order goes back to what?
Although Dominic and the early brethren had instituted female Dominican houses at Prouille and other places by 1227, some of the brethren of the order had misgivings about the necessity of female religious establishments in an order whose major purpose was preaching, a duty in which women could not traditionally engage	Who did some early Dominican followers have trouble reconciling?
Female houses differed from male Dominican houses in a lack of apostolic work for the women	How did female Dominican houses differ from male ones?
Women could not be professed to the Dominican religious life before the age of thirteen	After what age could women become members of the Dominican Order?
Because the nuns of the order did not preach among the people, the need to engage in study was not as immediate or intense as it was for men	What did the nuns not do in the Dominican Order?
As heirs of the Dominican priory of Poissy in France, the Dartford sisters were also heirs to a tradition of profound learning and piety	The Dartford sisters were heirs of what priory?
It was also, however, a group of Englishmen	The Dominican Order in England was controlled by who?
The first Dominican site in England was at Oxford, in the parishes of St	What famous school was home to the first English Dominican Order?
English Dominican mysticism in the late medieval period differed from European strands of it in that, whereas European Dominican mysticism tended to concentrate on ecstatic experiences of union with the divine, English Dominican mysticism's ultimate focus was on a crucial dynamic in one's personal relationship with God	What did European mysticism concentrate on that English mysticism didn't?
For English Dominican mystics, the mystical experience was not expressed just in one moment of the full knowledge of God, but in the journey of, or process of, faith	What was so important to English mystics?
English Dominicans sought to gain a full knowledge of Christ through an imitation of His life	How did the English order hope to gain knowledge of Christ?
The English concentrated on the spirit of the events of Christ's life, not the literality of events	The English Dominican Order focused primarily on what?
"The idea of the ""image of God"" demonstrates both the ability of man to move toward God , and that, on some level, man is always an image of God"	What is man always seen as?
"Eton is one of ten English HMC schools, commonly referred to as ""public schools"", regulated by the Public Schools Act of 1868"	How many public schools are regulated by the 1868 Public Schools Act?
David Cameron is the 19th British prime minister to have attended the school, and has recommended that Eton set up a school in the state sector to help drive up standards	How many British prime ministers attended Eton?
About 20% of pupils at Eton receive financial support, through a range of bursaries and scholarships	How many students receive financial aid at Eton?
4 miles) in a 400-acre park, officially known throughout the Games as Eton Dorney, provided training facilities for Olympic and Paralympic competitors, and during the Games, hosted the Olympic and Paralympic Rowing competitions as well as the Olympic Canoe Sprint event, attracting over 400,000 visitors during the Games period , and voted the best 2012 Olympic venue by spectators	What purpose did Eton Dorney have to the London Olympic games?
Eton's first Headmaster, William Waynflete, founder of Magdalen College, Oxford and previously Head Master of Winchester College, built the ante-chapel that finishes the Chapel today	Who was Eton's first Headmaster?
Building resumed when Roger Lupton was Provost, around 1517	Around what year did construction continue after a period of financial struggle?
"The Duke of Wellington is often incorrectly quoted as saying that ""The Battle of Waterloo was won on the playing-fields of Eton"""	"Who was incorrctly quoted in saying ""The Battle of Waterloo was won on the playing-fields of Eton""?"
Bodley was erected, many Etonians visited, and stimulated among other things the Eton Manor Boys' Club, a notable rowing club which has survived the Mission itself, and the 59 Club for motorcyclists	Which club at Eaton is for motorcyclists?
Hall) were erected in 1906-8 across the road from Upper School as the school's memorial to the Etonians who had died in the Boer War	To whom were School Hall and School Library erected in memoriam of?
For a time, new admissions were called 'Jews' by their fellow Collegers	What were new students once called by others?
One boarding house, College, is reserved for seventy King's Scholars, who attend Eton on scholarships provided by the original foundation and awarded by examination each year; King's Scholars pay up to 90% of full fees, depending on their means	The College boarding house is reserved for whom?
These students became known as Oppidans, from the Latin word oppidum, meaning town	What is the term given to students who lived in town, but not on the campus of Eton?
If they choose instead to belong to one of the 24 Oppidan Houses, they are known as Oppidan Scholars	If a boy elects to live in an Oppidan house instead of the College house, what are they called?
The Oppidan Houses are named Godolphin House, Jourdelay's, (both built as such c	Which Oppidan Houses did not change from their original 1720 names?
"For much of Eton's history, junior boys had to act as ""fags"", or servants, to older boys"	What term was given to juniors who acted as servants to older students?
The long-standing claim that the present uniform was first worn as mourning for the death of George III is unfounded	There is false belief that the current uniforms were first worn for what event?
From the latter part of the 19th century this curriculum has changed and broadened: for example, there are now more than 100 students of Chinese, which is a non-curriculum course	How many current students take Chinese courses at Eaton?
The primary responsibility for a boy's studies lies with his House Master, but he is assisted by an additional director of studies, known as a tutor	What other term is given to the director of studies?
Those in existence at present include: Aeronautical, African, Alexander Cozens , Amnesty, Archeological, Architectural, Astronomy, Banks , Caledonian, Cheese, Classical, Comedy, Cosmopolitan, Debating, Design, Entrepreneurship, Geographical, Henry Fielding, Hispanic, History, Keynes , Law, Literary, Mathematical, Medical, Middle Eastern, Model United Nations, Modern Languages, Oriental, Orwell , Simeon , Parry , Photographic, Political, Praed , Rock , Rous , Salisbury , Savile , Shelley, Scientific, Sports, Tech Club, Theatre, Wellington , Wine and Wotton’s 	Which Eton society is dedicated to philosophy?
Also of note are the Gladstone Memorial Prize and the Coutts Prize, awarded on the results of trials and AS-level examinations in C; and the Huxley Prize, awarded for a project on a scientific subject	For what is the Huxley prize awarded?
These include the Busk Fund, which supports individual ventures that show particular initiative; the C	What does the Busk Fund support?
"If any boy produces an outstanding piece of work, it may be ""Sent Up For Good"", storing the effort in the College Archives for posterity"	"What action results in something being ""Sent Up For Good?"""
"The opposite of a Show Up is a ""Rip"""	What is the opposite of a Show Up?
"Conversely, should a master be more than 15 minutes late for a class, traditionally the pupils might claim it as a ""run"" and absent themselves for the rest of its duration"	What term is used if a master is more than 15 minutes late to a class?
Anthony Chenevix-Trench, Head Master from 1964 to 1970, abolished the birch and replaced it with caning, also applied to the bare posterior, which he administered privately in his office	The birch was abolished and replaced with what?
"The current ""Precentor"" is Tim Johnson, and the School boasts eight organs and an entire building for music "	What term is given to the Head of Music?
Numerous plays are put on every year at Eton College; there is one main theatre, called the Farrer and 2 Studio theatres, called the Caccia Studio and Empty Space 	How many people can sit in the audience at Eton's main theatre?
Often girls from surrounding schools, such as St George's, Ascot, St Mary's School Ascot, Windsor Girls' School and Heathfield St Mary's School, are cast in female roles	Who are cast in Eton's female roles in their productions?
"Eton's best-known holiday takes place on the so-called ""Fourth of June"", a celebration of the birthday of King George III, Eton's greatest patron"	What is Eton's best-known holiday?
As a charity, it benefits from substantial tax breaks	Why is being a charity beneficial to Eton?
In 1995 the National Lottery granted money for a £4	Who granted money to Eton for a sports complex in 1995?
In October 2004, Sarah Forsyth claimed that she had been dismissed unfairly by Eton College and had been bullied by senior staff	Who claimed she had been unfairly fired by Eton and won her case?
""" In response to the tribunal's ruling concerning the allegations about Prince Harry, the School issued a statement, saying Forsyth's claims ""were dismissed for what they always have been - unfounded and irrelevant"	The School dismissed claims that Prince Harry was cheating by saying the claims were what?
However, Jean Scott, the head of the Independent Schools Council, said that independent schools had always been exempt from anti-cartel rules applied to business, were following a long-established procedure in sharing the information with each other, and that they were unaware of the change to the law 	Who defended fifty schools accused of price-sharing, stating they were unaware the laws had changed?
A Freedom of Information request in 2005 revealed that Eton had received £2,652 in farming subsidies in 2004 under the Common Agricultural Policy	How much had Eton received in farming subsidies in 2005?
In April 2011 the Labour MP David Lammy described as unfair and 'indefensible' the fact that Oxford University had organised nine 'outreach events' at Eton in 2010, although he admitted that it had, in fact, held fewer such events for Eton than for another independent school, Wellington College	How many outreach events were held at Eton by Oxford University in 2010?
In July 2015, Eton accidentally sent emails to 400 prospective students, offering them conditional entrance to the school in September 2017	When was an accidental email sent to potential students of Eton that warranted a personal apology to each family?
In January 2016, the Eton College beagling club was accused by the League Against Cruel Sports of undertaking an illegal hare hunt	What was Eton's beagle club accused of in January 2016?
] a relationship with the Roxbury Latin School, a traditional all-boys private school in Boston, USA	Which male private school in Boston, USA has Eton formed a relationship with?
Besides Prince William and Prince Harry, members of the extended British Royal Family who have attended Eton include Prince Richard, Duke of Gloucester and his son Alexander Windsor, Earl of Ulster; Prince Edward, Duke of Kent, his eldest son George Windsor, Earl of St Andrews and grandson Edward Windsor, Lord Downpatrick and his youngest son Lord Nicholas Windsor; Prince Michael of Kent and his son Lord Frederick Windsor; James Ogilvy, son of Princess Alexandra and the Right Honourable Angus Ogilvy, himself an Eton alumnus	Which Duke of Gloucester attended Eton?
Haldane, Stephen Wolfram and the 2012 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine winner, John Gurdon; Beau Brummell; economists John Maynard Keynes and Richard Layard; Antarctic explorer Lawrence Oates; politician Alan Clark; entrepreneur, charity organiser and partner of Adele, Simon Konecki; cricket commentator Henry Blofeld; explorer Sir Ranulph Fiennes; adventurer Bear Grylls; composers Thomas Arne, George Butterworth, Roger Quilter, Frederick Septimus Kelly, Donald Tovey, Thomas Dunhill, Lord Berners, Victor Hely-Hutchinson, and Peter Warlock ; Hubert Parry, who wrote the song Jerusalem and the coronation anthem I was glad; and musicians Frank Turner and Humphrey Lyttelton	Which 2012 Nobel Prize winner attended Eton?
Notable Old Etonians in the media include the former Political Editor of both ITN and The Times, Julian Haviland; the current BBC Deputy Political Editor, James Landale, and the BBC Science Editor, David Shukman; the current President of Conde Nast International and Managing Director of Conde Nast UK, Nicholas Coleridge; the former ITN newscaster and BBC Panorama presenter, Ludovic Kennedy; current BBC World News and BBC Rough Justice current affairs presenter David Jessel; former chief ITV and Channel 4 racing commentator John Oaksey; 1950s BBC newsreader and 1960s ITN newscaster Timothy Brinton; 1960s BBC newsreader Corbet Woodall; the former Editor of The Daily Telegraph, Charles Moore; the former Editor of The Spectator, Ferdinand Mount; and the current Editor of The Mail on Sunday, Geordie Greig	Which current BBC Deputy Political Editor attended Eton?
"They champion the talent of the individual and that’s what’s special about it"""	According to actor Tom Hiddleston, that is special about Eton?
Cork was originally a monastic settlement, reputedly founded by Saint Finbarr in the 6th century	Who was thought to have founded Cork?
The city's charter was granted by Prince John, as Lord of Ireland, in 1185	Who granted Cork's charter?
The city's municipal government was dominated by about 12–15 merchant families, whose wealth came from overseas trade with continental Europe — in particular the export of wool and hides and the import of salt, iron and wine	Who controlled Cork's municipal government?
The climate of Cork, like the rest of Ireland, is mild and changeable with abundant rainfall and a lack of temperature extremes	What is the weather like in Cork?
029 ft) of precipitation annually, most of which is rain	What is usually the type of precipitation that Cork receives?
Highlights include: Corcadorca Theatre Company, of which Cillian Murphy was a troupe member prior to Hollywood fame; the Institute for Choreography and Dance, a national contemporary dance resource; the Triskel Arts Centre (capacity c	Which Hollywood actress first began in Cork at the Corcadorca Theatre Company?
Singer songwriter Cathal Coughlan and Sean O'Hagan of The High Llamas also hail from Cork	Which group members of The High Llamas are from Cork?
Cork has been culturally diverse for many years, from Huguenot communities in the 17th century, through to Eastern European communities and a smaller numbers from African and Asian nations in the 20th and 21st centuries	What are 2 major cultural influences of Cork?
Patterns of tone and intonation often rise and fall, with the overall tone tending to be more high-pitched than other Irish accents	What sets the Cork accent apart from other Irish accents?
Cork has also been home to pirate radio stations, including South Coast Radio and ERI in the 1980s	What are some pirate radio stations that were based in Cork?
Cork is home to one of Ireland's main national newspapers, the Irish Examiner 	WHich Irish newspaper has it's homebase in Cork, Ireland?
Cork features architecturally notable buildings originating from the Medieval to Modern periods	From which periods are the buildings in Cork from?
Patrick's Street, the main street of the city which was remodelled in the mid-2000s, is known for the architecture of the buildings along its pedestrian-friendly route and is the main shopping thoroughfare	When was St. Patrick's Street remodeled?
Many of the city's buildings are in the Georgian style, although there are a number of examples of modern landmark structures, such as County Hall tower, which was, at one time the tallest building in Ireland until being superseded by another Cork City building: The Elysian	What style does most of the city's architecture belong to?
Other popular tourist attractions include the grounds of University College Cork, through which the River Lee flows, the Women's Gaol at Sundays Well and the English Market	What is the name of the college in Cork?
While local government in Ireland has limited powers in comparison with other countries, the council has responsibility for planning, roads, sanitation, libraries, street lighting, parks, and a number of other important functions	Who takes care of roads and sanitation in Cork?
The retail trade in Cork city includes a mix of both modern, state of the art shopping centres and family owned local shops	What types of retail offerings are found in Cork?
Its main area of industry is pharmaceuticals, with Pfizer Inc	What is the main industry in Cork?
The city is also home to the Heineken Brewery that brews Murphy's Irish Stout and the nearby Beamish and Crawford brewery which have been in the city for generations	Cork is home to which internationally famous brewery?
Public bus services within the city are provided by the national bus operator Bus Éireann	Who runs the public busses in Cork?
For example, the Cork South Link dual carriageway was built in the early 1980s, to link the Kinsale Road roundabout with the city centre	When was the Cork South Link dual carriageway built?
Cork was one of the most rail-oriented cities in Ireland, featuring eight stations at various times	How many rail stations has cork had over the years?
Within the city there have been two tram networks in operation	How many tram systems were in Cork?
In July 2009 the Glounthaune to Midleton line was reopened, with new stations at Carrigtwohill and Midleton 	Which line was reopened in 2009?
The National Maritime College of Ireland is also located in Cork and is the only college in Ireland in which Nautical Studies and Marine Engineering can be undertaken	Where can one study nautical and marine subjects in Cork?
In CIT, The Rubicon Centre is a business innovation hub that is home to 57 knowledge based start-up companies	What is the biggest conglomeration of start-up companies in Cork?
Hurling and football are the most popular spectator sports in the city	What are the biggest sports draws in Cork?
There are a variety of watersports in Cork, including rowing and sailing	What kinds of sea faring sports are available in Cork?
The most notable cricket club in Cork is Cork County Cricket Club, which was formed in 1874	What's the most famous cricket club in Cork?
Cork also hosts one of Ireland's most successful Australian Rules Football teams, the Leeside Lions, who have won the Australian Rules Football League of Ireland Premiership four times 	Which Australian Rules Football team is Cork home to?
Galicia , , or ; Spanish: ; Galician and Portuguese: Galiza, , or ) is an autonomous community of Spain and historic nationality under Spanish law	Which country is Galicia in?
The area now called Galicia was first inhabited by humans during the Middle Paleolithic period, and it takes its name from the Gallaeci, the Celtic peoples living north of the Douro river during the last millennium BC, in a region largely coincidental with that of the Iron Age local Castro culture	During which period did humans first inhabit Galicia?
The interior of Galicia is characterized by its hilly landscape, although mountain ranges rise to 2,000 m in the east and south	How high does Galicia's mountain ranges rise?
The name evolved during the Middle Ages from Gallaecia, sometimes written Galletia, to Gallicia	What is one variation of Gallicia's name used during the Middle Ages?
"Although the etymology of the name has been studied since the 7th century by authors like Isidore of Seville —who wrote that ""Galicians are called so, because of their fair skin, as the Gauls"", relating the name to the Greek word for milk—, currently scholars derive the name of the ancient Callaeci either from Proto-Indo-European *kal-n-eH2 'hill', through a local relational suffix -aik-, so meaning 'the hill '; or either from Proto-Celtic *kallī- 'forest', so meaning 'the forest '"	"Which author wrote that ""Galicians are called so, because of their fair skin, as the Gauls""?"
The oldest attestation of human presence in Galicia has been found in the Eirós Cave, in the municipality of Triacastela, which has preserved animal remains and Neanderthal stone objects from the Middle Paleolithic	Where in Galicia has the oldest evidence of humans been found?
The Castro culture developed during the Iron Age, and flourished during the second half of the first millennium BC	What does the Castro culture's name mean?
Gallaeci lived in castros	What were the forts that the Gallaeci lived in called?
Later the Muslims invaded Spain , but the Arabs and Moors never managed to have any real control over Galicia, which was later incorporated into the expanding Christian Kingdom of Asturias, usually known as Gallaecia or Galicia by Muslim Chroniclers, as well as by many European contemporaries	Though the Muslims couldn't take full control of Galicia, when was it that they invaded Spain?
The Roman legions first entered the area under Decimus Junius Brutus in 137–136 BC, but the country was only incorporated into the Roman Empire by the time of Augustus 	Under whom did Roman legions first enter Galicia?
In the early 5th century, the deep crisis suffered by the Roman Empire allowed different tribes of Central Europe to cross the Rhine and penetrate into the rule on 31 December 406	At the end of which year did Central Europe tribes invade the Roman Empire?
In the 9th century, the rise of the cult of the Apostle James in Santiago de Compostela gave Galicia a particular symbolic importance among Christians, an importance it would hold throughout the Reconquista	Which cult arose in Galicia during the 9th century?
In 1063, Ferdinand I of Castile divided his realm among his sons, and the Kingdom of Galicia was granted to Garcia II of Galicia	Who was it that in 1063 gave rule over Galicia to his son?
On the other hand, the lack of an effective royal justice system in the Kingdom led to the social conflict known as the Guerras Irmandiñas , when leagues of peasants and burghers, with the support of a number of knights, noblemen, and under legal protection offered by the remote king, toppled many of the castles of the Kingdom and briefly drove the noblemen into Portugal and Castile	Social turmoil led to conflict?
The modern period of the kingdom of Galicia began with the murder or defeat of some of the most powerful Galician lords, such as Pedro Álvarez de Sotomayor, called Pedro Madruga, and Rodrigo Henriquez Osorio, at the hands of the Castilian armies sent to Galicia between the years 1480 and 1486	Castillan armies invaded Galicia between which years?
The establishment of the Santa Hermandad in 1480, and of the Real Audiencia del Reino de Galicia in 1500—a tribunal and executive body directed by the Governor-Captain General as a direct representative of the King—implied initially the submission of the Kingdom to the Crown, after a century of unrest and fiscal insubordination	Which government body was formed in 1480?
The most famous assaults were upon the city of Vigo by Sir Francis Drake in 1585 and 1589, and the siege of A Coruña in 1589 by the English Armada	Where did Sir Francis Drake attack in 1585 and again in 1589?
After the rupture of the wars with Portugal and Catalonia, the Junta changed its attitude, this time due to the exhaustion of Galicia, now involved not just in naval or oversea operations, but also in an exhausting war with the Portuguese, war which produced thousands of casualties and refugees and was heavily disturbing to the local economy and commerce	War broke out with which other countries?
In the early 20th century came another turn toward nationalist politics with Solidaridad Gallega modeled on Solidaritat Catalana in Catalonia	Which nationalist movement arose in the early 20th century?
Galicia's statute of autonomy was annulled 	Along with Galicia's, which other two province's autonomy was annulled?
General Francisco Franco — himself a Galician from Ferrol — ruled as dictator from the civil war until his death in 1975	Francisco Franco was himself a Galician from which city?
"As part of the transition to democracy upon the death of Franco in 1975, Galicia regained its status as an autonomous region within Spain with the Statute of Autonomy of 1981, which begins, ""Galicia, historical nationality, is constituted as an Autonomous Community to access to its self-government, in agreement with the Spanish Constitution and with the present Statute ("	Which form of government did Galicia start using in 1975
From 1990 to 2005, Manuel Fraga, former minister and ambassador in the Franco dictature, presided over the Galician autonomous government, the Xunta de Galicia	Which former minister under Franco's rule headed the autonomous government from 1990 to 2005?
Galicia has a surface area of 29,574 square kilometres 	What is Galicia's surface area in sq/km?
These are called rías and are divided into the smaller Rías Altas , and the larger Rías Baixas 	What are estuaries called in Galicia?
A 2007 inventory estimates that the Galician coast has 316 archipelagos, islets, and freestanding rocks	The Galician coast is estimated to have about how many archipelagos, islets, and freestanding rocks?
The main mountain range is the Macizo Galaico , also known as Macizo Galaico-Leonés, located in the eastern parts, bordering with Castile and León	What is Galicia's main mountain range?
"Galicia is poetically known as the ""country of the thousand rivers"" "	What is Galicia is poetically known as?
Deforestation and forest fires are a problem in many areas, as is the continual spread of the eucalyptus tree, a species imported from Australia, actively promoted by the paper industry since the mid-20th century	Which tree species has become a problem for Galicia?
The Galician horse is native to the region, as is the Galician Blond cow and the domestic fowl known as the galiña de Mos	Which cow species is native to Galicia?
The warmest coastal station of Pontevedra has a yearly mean temperature of 14	Where is Galicia's warmest coastal station?
The lands of Galicia are ascribed to two different areas in the Köppen climate classification: a south area with tendencies to have some summer drought, classified as a warm-summer Mediterranean climate , with mild temperatures and rainfall usual throughout the year; and the western and northern coastal regions, the provinces of Lugo and A Coruña, which are characterized by their Oceanic climate , with a more uniform precipitation distribution along the year, and milder summers	What is the southern area's climate classified as?
As an example, Santiago de Compostela, the political capital city, has an average of 129 rainy days and 1,362 millimetres (53	What is the political capital city?
6	How many days with frosts?
Galicia is further divided into 53 comarcas, 315 municipalities and 3,778 parishes	How many comarcas does Galicia consist of?
In comparison to the other regions of Spain, the major economic benefit of Galicia is its fishing Industry	Which industry is Galicia's main money maker?
Galicia was late to catch the tourism boom that has swept Spain in recent decades, but the coastal regions are now significant tourist destinations and are especially popular with visitors from other regions in Spain, where the majority of tourists come from	Which two coastal regions are now major tourist destinations?
The most important Galician fishing port is the Port of Vigo; It is one of the world's leading fishing ports, second only to Tokyo, with an annual catch worth 1,500 million euros	Which port is Galicia's most important?
Within Galicia are the Autopista AP-9 from Ferrol to Vigo and the Autopista AP-53 from Santiago to Ourense	The Autopista AP-53 was originally built by whom?
The first railway line in Galicia was inaugurated 15 September 1873	In which year did Galicia's first railway line open?
The rapid increase of population of A Coruña, Vigo and to a lesser degree other major Galician cities, like Ourense, Pontevedra or Santiago de Compostela during the years that followed the Spanish Civil War during the mid-20th century occurred as the rural population declined: many villages and hamlets of the four provinces of Galicia disappeared or nearly disappeared during the same period	A rapid population growth after occurred after which war?
Spanish was nonetheless the only official language in Galicia for more than four centuries	For how long was Spanish the official language of Galicia?
16 percent of the populace of Galicia understand the language, 91	Roughly what percentage of the population actually speaks Galician?
The earliest known document in Galician-Portuguese dates from 1228	The earliest Galician-Portuguese documents date back to which year?
Christianity is the most widely practised religion in Galicia, as it has been since its introduction in Late Antiquity, although it lived alongside the old Gallaeci religion for a few centuries	What is Galicia's most widespread religion?
Since the Middle Ages, the Galician Catholic Church has been organized into five ecclesiastical dioceses 	Which church has had a large influence over Galicia since the Middle Ages?
It was the Romans who founded some of the first cities in Galicia like Lugo and Ourense	Which civilization was it that founded some of the first Galician cities?
The patron saint of Galicia is Saint James the Greater, whose body was discovered – according to the Catholic tradition – in 814 near Compostela	Who is Galicia's patron saint?
In northern Galicia, the A Coruña-Ferrol metropolitan area has become increasingly dominant in terms of population	Which metro area is largest in terms of population?
Galicia's inhabitants are known as Galicians 	What to Galician's call themselves in their language?
The Autovía A-6 connects A Coruña and Lugo to Madrid, entering Galicia at Pedrafita do Cebreiro	Which Spanish city does the Autovía A-6 lead to?
USB was designed to standardize the connection of computer peripherals to personal computers, both to communicate and to supply electric power	What was designed to standardize the connection of computer peripherals?
, Ethernet, HDMI), each end of a USB cable uses a different kind of connector; a Type-A or a Type-B	What are the different kinds of USB connectors?
"Counter-intuitively, the ""micro"" size is the most durable from the point of designed insertion lifetime"	What size is the most durable from the point of designed insertion lifetime?
USB connections also come in five data transfer modes, in ascending order: Low Speed (1	USB connections come in what?
A group of seven companies began the development of USB in 1994: Compaq, DEC, IBM, Intel, Microsoft, NEC, and Nortel	When did the seven companies begin developing USB's?
0 specification, which was introduced in January 1996, defined data transfer rates of 1	When was the original USB 1.0 Specification introduced?
The new SuperSpeed bus provides a fourth transfer mode with a data signaling rate of 5	What provides a fourth transfer mode?
0 ports come in low-power and high-power variants, providing 150 mA and 900 mA respectively, while simultaneously transmitting data at SuperSpeed rates	What are the power variants in USB 3.0 ports?
A January 2013 press release from the USB group revealed plans to update USB 3	When were the plans to update USB 3.0 to 10 Gbit/s revealed?
0 was finalized in August 2014 and defines a new small reversible-plug connector for USB devices	When was the Type-C Specification 1.0 finalized?
Full-featured USB Type-C cables are active, electronically marked cables that contain a chip with an ID function based on the configuration data channel and vendor-defined messages from the USB Power Delivery 2	What kind of cables does the fully featured USB Type-C contain?
F	What is the shortened version of vendor-defined messages?
The design architecture of USB is asymmetrical in its topology, consisting of a host, a multitude of downstream USB ports, and multiple peripheral devices connected in a tiered-star topology	The design of USB is asymmetrical in what?
A physical USB device may consist of several logical sub-devices that are referred to as device functions	What are logical sub-devices referred to as?
A pipe is a connection from the host controller to a logical entity, found on a device, and named an endpoint	What is a pipe?
If the direction of the data transfer is from the device to the host, the host sends an IN packet instead	If the direction of the data transfer is from the device to the host, what does the host send?
When a USB device is first connected to a USB host, the USB device enumeration process is started	What is started when a USB is first connected to a host?
0 hubs contain devices called transaction translators that convert between high-speed USB 2	What kind of devices do High speed USB 2.0's contain?
USB implements connections to storage devices using a set of standards called the USB mass storage device class 	What do USB's implement connections to?
Though most computers since mid-2004 can boot from USB mass storage devices, USB is not intended as a primary bus for a computer's internal storage	Since when can most computers boot from USB mass storage devices?
), several manufacturers offer external portable USB hard disk drives, or empty enclosures for disk drives	Several manufacturers offer what?
Media Transfer Protocol was designed by Microsoft to give higher-level access to a device's filesystem than USB mass storage, at the level of files rather than disk blocks	Media Transfer Protocol was designed by who?
USB mice and keyboards can usually be used with older computers that have PS/2 connectors with the aid of a small USB-to-PS/2 adapter	What do older computers have to have in order for USB mice and keyboards to be used?
By design, it is difficult to insert a USB plug into its receptacle incorrectly	What is difficult to do with a USB plug?
The standard connectors were deliberately intended to enforce the directed topology of a USB network: Type-A receptacles on host devices that supply power and Type-B receptacles on target devices that draw power	What do Type-A receptacles do on host devices?
The standard connectors were designed to be robust	Standard connectors were designed to be what?
The external metallic sheath is typically connected to system ground, thus dissipating damaging static charges	Where is the external metallic sheet connected?
The newer micro-USB receptacles are designed for a minimum rated lifetime of 10,000 cycles of insertion and removal between the receptacle and plug, compared to 1,500 for the standard USB and 5,000 for the mini-USB receptacle	What are the newer micro-USB receptacles designed for?
The USB standard specifies relatively loose tolerances for compliant USB connectors to minimize physical incompatibilities in connectors from different vendors	What type of tolerances does the USB standard specify for compliant USB connectors?
In general, USB cables have only plugs on their ends, while hosts and devices have only receptacles	USB cables and device have only what on their ends?
Various connectors have been used for smaller devices such as digital cameras, smartphones, and tablet computers	What has been used to connect digital cameras. smartphones and other devices to tablet computers?
The micro connector is also designed to reduce the mechanical wear on the device; instead the easier-to-replace cable is designed to bear the mechanical wear of connection and disconnection	What is the micro connector designed for?
"The cellular phone carrier group Open Mobile Terminal Platform in 2007 endorsed micro-USB as the standard connector for data and power on mobile devices In addition, on 22 October 2009 the International Telecommunication Union has also announced that it had embraced micro-USB as the Universal Charging Solution its ""energy-efficient one-charger-fits-all new mobile phone solution,"" and added: ""Based on the Micro-USB interface, UCS chargers also include a 4-star or higher efficiency rating—​​up to three times more energy-efficient than an unrated charger"	In 2007 who endorsed micro-USB as the standard connector for data and power on mobile devices?
The European Standardisation Bodies CEN, CENELEC and ETSI defined a common External Power Supply for use with smartphones sold in the EU based on micro-USB	Who defined a common External Power Supply for use with smartphones sold?
All current USB On-The-Go devices are required to have one, and only one, USB connector: a micro-AB receptacle	What are all USB On-The-Go devices required to have?
The OTG device with the B-plug inserted is called the B-device and by default assumes the role of peripheral	The OTG device with the B-plug inserted is called what?
USB is a serial bus, using four shielded wires for the USB 2	What is USB?
0 provides for a maximum cable length of 5 meters for devices running at Hi Speed 	How long is the maximum cable length the USB 2.0 provides?
0, and 150 mA in USB 3	How much is a unit load in USB 3.0?
Some devices, such as high-speed external disk drives, require more than 500 mA of current and therefore may have power issues if powered from just one USB 2	What is an example of a device that requires more than 500 mA of current?
1 defines a new type of USB port, called the charging port	When was the USB Battery Charging Specification Revision 1.1 released?
Two types of charging port exist: the charging downstream port , supporting data transfers as well, and the dedicated charging port , without data support	How many types of charging ports exist?
2 removes support for USB ports type detection via resistive detection mechanisms	What does revision 1.2 remove?
"In July 2012, the USB Promoters Group announced the finalization of the USB Power Delivery specification, an extension that specifies using certified ""PD aware"" USB cables with standard USB Type-A and Type-B connectors to deliver increased power (more than 7"	When did the USB Promoters Group announce the finalization of the USB Power Delivery specification?
It covers the Type-C cable and connector with four power/ground pairs and a separate configuration channel, which now hosts a DC coupled low-frequency BMC-coded data channel that reduces the possibilities for RF interference	What does the USB Power Delivery revision 2.0 specification cover?
Sleep-and-charge USB ports can be used to charge electronic devices even when the computer is switched off	What can sleep-and-charge USB ports be used to do?
On Dell and Toshiba laptops, the port is marked with the standard USB symbol with an added lightning bolt icon on the right side	On what laptops are the USB ports marked with a USB symbol with an added lightening bolt icon?
"The GSM Association followed suit on 17 February 2009, and on 22 April 2009, this was further endorsed by the CTIA – The Wireless Association, with the International Telecommunication Union announcing on 22 October 2009 that it had also embraced the Universal Charging Solution as its ""energy-efficient one-charger-fits-all new mobile phone solution,"" and added: ""Based on the Micro-USB interface, UCS chargers will also include a 4-star or higher efficiency rating—up to three times more energy-efficient than an unrated charger"	When did the GSM Association follow suit?
In June 2009, many of the world's largest mobile phone manufacturers signed an EC-sponsored Memorandum of Understanding , agreeing to make most data-enabled mobile phones marketed in the European Union compatible with a common External Power Supply 	When did many of the largest mobile phone manufacturers sign an EC-sponsored MoU?
Such devices can use an external power supply, which is allowed by the standard, or use a dual-input USB cable, one input of which is used for power and data transfer, the other solely for power, which makes the device a non-standard USB device	Some devices such as an external hard and optical disk drive can use what?
In addition to limiting the total average power used by the device, the USB specification limits the inrush current (i	What does the USB specification limit?
Some non-standard USB devices use the 5 V power supply without participating in a proper USB network, which negotiates power draw with the host interface	What do some non-standard USB devices use?
USB data is transmitted by toggling the data lines between the J state and the opposite K state	How is the USB data transmitted?
A USB packet's end, called EOP , is indicated by the transmitter driving 2 bit times of SE0 (D+ and D− both below max	What is a USB packet's end called?
0 devices use a special protocol during reset, called chirping, to negotiate the high bandwidth mode with the host/hub	What type of protocol is used for USB 2.0 devices during a reset?
0) hard drives can sustain rates of 25–30 MB/s, while read operations are at 30–42 MB/s; this is 70% of the total available bus bandwidth	Write operations to typical Hi-Speed hard drives can what?
After the sync field, all packets are made of 8-bit bytes, transmitted least-significant bit first	After the sync field, all packets are made of how many bit bytes?
Handshake packets consist of only a single PID byte, and are generally sent in response to data packets	Handshake packets consist of only a single what?
IN and OUT tokens contain a seven-bit device number and four-bit function number and command the device to transmit DATAx packets, or receive the following DATAx packets, respectively	IN and OUT tokens contain what?
This is used to perform split transactions	 a larger three-byte SPLIT token with a seven-bit hub number, 12 bits of control flags, and a five-bit CRC were created to do what?
There are two basic forms of data packet, DATA0 and DATA1	There are two basic forms of data packet, what are they?
Low-bandwidth devices are supported with a special PID value, PRE	Low-bandwidth devices are supported with what?
These and other differences reflect the differing design goals of the two buses: USB was designed for simplicity and low cost, while FireWire was designed for high performance, particularly in time-sensitive applications such as audio and video	These and other differences reflect the differing design goals of what?
3af Power over Ethernet standard specifies a more elaborate power negotiation scheme than powered USB	The IEEE 802.3af Power over Ethernet standard specifies a what?
USB has no such requirement as it was designed for peripherals closely associated with a host computer, and in fact it connects the peripheral and host grounds	USB was designed for peripherals to be what?
eSATA does not supply power to external devices	eSATA does not supply power to what?
0 that eliminates the conventional analog transceivers found in normal USB	What does USB 2.0 High-Speed Inter-Chip eliminate?
Sichuan was referred to in ancient Chinese sources as Ba-Shu , an abbreviation of the kingdoms of Ba and Shu which existed within the Sichuan Basin	What was Sichuan referred to as by ancient Chinese sources?
Accounts of Shu exist mainly as a mixture of mythological stories and historical legends recorded in local annals such as the Chronicles of Huayang compiled in the Jin dynasty , with folk stories such as that of Emperor Duyu who taught the people agriculture and transformed himself into a cuckoo after his death	What did Emperor Duyu transform himself into after his death?
The Sichuan basin is surrounded by the Himalayas to the west, the Qin Mountains to the north, and mountainous areas of Yunnan to the south	What surrounds the Sichuan basin to the west?
Qin armies finished their conquest of the kingdoms of Shu and Ba by 316 BC	By what year did the Qin armies finish their conquest of Shu and Ba?
Sichuan came under the firm control of a Chinese central government during the Sui dynasty, but it was during the subsequent Tang dynasty where Sichuan regained its previous political and cultural prominence for which it was known during the Han	During which dynasty did Sichuan regain its political and cultural prominence for which it was known during the Han?
In the middle of the 17th century, the peasant rebel leader Zhang Xianzhong from Yan'an, Shanxi Province, nicknamed Yellow Tiger, led his peasant troop from north China to the south, and conquered Sichuan	What was the nickname rebel leader Zhang Xianzhong?
In the 20th century, as Beijing, Shanghai, Nanjing, and Wuhan had all been occupied by the Japanese during the Second Sino-Japanese War, the capital of the Republic of China had been temporary relocated to Chongqing, then a major city in Sichuan	To which city was the Chinese capitol relocated to during Japanese occupation in the 20th century? 
The Second Sino-Japanese War was soon followed by the resumed Chinese Civil War, and the cities of East China fell to the Communists one after another, the Kuomintang government again tried to make Sichuan its stronghold on the mainland, although it already saw some Communist activity since it was one area on the road of the Long March	What group was the main antagonist during the Chinese Civil War?
From 1955 until 1997 Sichuan had been China's most populous province, hitting 100 million mark shortly after the 1982 census figure of 99,730,000	What Chinese Province had the largest population until 1997?
Sichuan consists of two geographically very distinct parts	How many distinct parts make up Sichuan?
The Yangtze River and its tributaries flows through the mountains of western Sichuan and the Sichuan Basin; thus, the province is upstream of the great cities that stand along the Yangtze River further to the east, such as Chongqing, Wuhan, Nanjing and Shanghai	Which river flows through the Sichuan Basin?
Under the Köppen climate classification, the Sichuan Basin in the eastern half of the province experiences a humid subtropical climate , with long, hot, humid summers and short, mild to cool, dry and cloudy winters	What climate classification does the Sichuan Basin hold?
"Sichuan has been historically known as the ""Province of Abundance"""	"What area for the ""Province of Abundance"" refer to?"
In addition to heavy industries such as coal, energy, iron and steel, the province has also established a light industrial sector comprising building materials, wood processing, food and silk processing	What are some major industrial outputs of Sichuan?
The Three Gorges Dam, the largest dam ever constructed, is being built on the Yangtze River in nearby Hubei province to control flooding in the Sichuan Basin, neighboring Yunnan province, and downstream	What is the largest dam ever built in the world?
Chengdu, Suining, Nanchong, Dazhou, Ya'an, Abazhou, and Liangshan all saw an increase of more than 40 percent while Leshan, Neijiang, Luzhou, Meishan, Ziyang, and Yibin saw an increase of more than 20 percent	What cities saw an increase in foreign trade of more than 40% in 2008?
The monthly minimum wage went up from 400 to 450 yuan, with a minimum of 4	What was the new monthly minimum wage in Sichuan by January 2008?
Chengdu Economic and Technological Development Zone was approved as state-level development zone in February 2000	When was the Chengdu Economic and Technological Development Zone approved?
Established in 1988, Chengdu Hi-tech Industrial Development Zone was approved as one of the first national hi-tech development zones in 1991	When was the Chengdu Hi-tech Industrial Development Zone established?
9 sq mi), consisting of the South Park and the West Park	Which Parks make up the Chengdu Hi-tech Development Zone?
Mianyang Hi-Tech Industrial Development Zone was established in 1992, with a planned area of 43 km2 	What is the planned area of the Mianyang Hi-Tech Industrial Development Zone?
On 3 November 2007, the Sichuan Transportation Bureau announced that the Sui-Yu Expressway was completed after three years of construction	How long did it take to complete the Sui-Yu Expressway?
The majority of the province's population is Han Chinese, who are found scattered throughout the region with the exception of the far western areas	What race is the majority of Sichuan?
Sichuan was China's most populous province before Chongqing became a directly-controlled municipality; it is currently the fourth most populous, after Guangdong, Shandong and Henan	What are the three most populist provinces in China?
Garzê Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture and Ngawa Tibetan and Qiang Autonomous Prefecture in western Sichuan are populated by Tibetans and Qiang people	What are the largest minorities of western Sichuan?
The Sichuanese are proud of their cuisine, known as one of the Four Great Traditions of Chinese cuisine	Who is proud of their chefs?
Developed in conjunction with the Universal Coded Character Set standard and published as The Unicode Standard, the latest version of Unicode contains a repertoire of more than 120,000 characters covering 129 modern and historic scripts, as well as multiple symbol sets	What was Unicode published as?
The most commonly used encodings are UTF-8, UTF-16 and the now-obsolete UCS-2	What are the most commonly used encodings of Unicode?
Unicode has the explicit aim of transcending the limitations of traditional character encodings, such as those defined by the ISO 8859 standard, which find wide usage in various countries of the world but remain largely incompatible with each other	What is the aim of Unicode?
The first 256 code points were made identical to the content of ISO-8859-1 so as to make it trivial to convert existing western text	What were the first 256 code points of Unicode made identical to? 
In 1996, a surrogate character mechanism was implemented in Unicode 2	When was a surrogate character mechanism implemented in Unicode 2.0?
The major categories are: Letter, Mark, Number, Punctuation, Symbol, Separator and Other	What are the General Categories of Unicode?
Code points in the range U+D800–U+DBFF are known as high-surrogate code points, and code points in the range U+DC00–U+DFFF are known as low-surrogate code points	What are code points in the range U+D800-U+DBFF known as? 
"For example, a Latin small letter ""i"" with an ogonek, a dot above, and an acute accent, which is required in Lithuanian, is represented by the character sequence U+012F, U+0307, U+0301"	What is an ogonek? 
0 by the Name Stability policy	What policy guaranteed that characters have a unique and immutable name?
Unicode is developed in conjunction with the International Organization for Standardization and shares the character repertoire with ISO/IEC 10646: the Universal Character Set	Who was Unicode developed in conjunction with?
The Consortium first published The Unicode Standard in 1991 and continues to develop standards based on that original work	When was the Unicode Standard first published? 
The Unicode Roadmap Committee maintain the list of scripts that are candidates or potential candidates for encoding and their tentative code block assignments on the Unicode Roadmap page of the Unicode Consortium Web site	Michael Everson, Rick McGowan, and Ken Whistler make up what group?
Unicode defines two mapping methods: the Unicode Transformation Format encodings, and the Universal Coded Character Set encodings	How many mapping methods does Unicode define?
The UCS-2 and UTF-16 encodings specify the Unicode Byte Order Mark for use at the beginnings of text files, which may be used for byte ordering detection 	What does BOM stand for? 
However RFC 3629, the UTF-8 standard, recommends that byte order marks be forbidden in protocols using UTF-8, but discusses the cases where this may not be possible	What is the UTF-8 standard? 
"UTF-32 is widely used as an internal representation of text in programs , since every Unix operating system that uses the gcc compilers to generate software uses it as the standard ""wide character"" encoding"	How is UTF-32 widely used? 
Unicode also contains precomposed versions of most letter/diacritic combinations in normal use	What combinations does unicode contain in normal use?
Still, most of those ideographs comprise simpler elements , so in principle, Unicode could have decomposed them, as it did with Hangul	The CJK ideographs comprise simpler elements called what in English?
The rules governing ligature formation can be quite complex, requiring special script-shaping technologies such as ACE , which became the proof of concept for OpenType , Graphite , or AAT 	What does ACE stand for? 
Instructions are also embedded in fonts to tell the operating system how to properly output different character sequences	where are instructions embedded to tell fonts how to output sequences? 
0 supports WGL-4 with 652 characters, which is considered to support all contemporary European languages using the Latin, Greek, or Cyrillic script	What subset of Unicode is used by Windows? 
"Rendering software which cannot process a Unicode character appropriately often displays it as an open rectangle, or the Unicode ""replacement character"" , to indicate the position of the unrecognized character"	What does rendering software display when it can't process a Unicode character? 
Unicode has become the dominant scheme for internal processing and storage of text	What is the dominant scheme for internal processing? 
For email transmission of Unicode the UTF-8 character set and the Base64 or the Quoted-printable transfer encoding are recommended, depending on whether much of the message consists of ASCII-characters	What is recommended for email transmission of Unicode? 
"Thousands of fonts exist on the market, but fewer than a dozen fonts—sometimes described as ""pan-Unicode"" fonts—attempt to support the majority of Unicode's character repertoire"	How many fonts support the majority of Unicode's character repertoire? 
In terms of the newline, Unicode introduced U+2028 LINE SEPARATOR and U+2029 PARAGRAPH SEPARATOR	What is the code for separating lines? 
Unicode has been criticized for failing to separately encode older and alternative forms of kanji which, critics argue, complicates the processing of ancient Japanese and uncommon Japanese names	Why has Unicode been criticized for not separately encoding forms of kanji?
For example, the Advanced Typographic tables of OpenType permit one of a number of alternative glyph representations to be selected when performing the character to glyph mapping process	what tables of OpenType allow permit the selection of alternative glyph representations?
Unicode was designed to provide code-point-by-code-point round-trip format conversion to and from any preexisting character encodings, so that text files in older character sets can be naïvely converted to Unicode, and then back and get back the same file	Unicode was designed for a round trip format conversion to and from what? 
Injective mappings must be provided between characters in existing legacy character sets and characters in Unicode to facilitate conversion to Unicode and allow interoperability with legacy software	What kind of mappings must be provided between characters in existing legacy character sets and those in Unicode?
Indic scripts such as Tamil and Devanagari are each allocated only 128 code points, matching the ISCII standard	How many code points are tamil and Devanagari allocated? 
This complication is due to Unicode inheriting the Thai Industrial Standard 620, which worked in the same way, and was the way in which Thai had always been written on keyboards	What standard did Unicode inherit involving a Thai language? 
Characters with diacritical marks can generally be represented either as a single precomposed character or as a decomposed sequence of a base letter plus one or more non-spacing marks	How are characters with diacritical marks represented? 
Detroit is the most populous city in the U	What city has the biggest population in Michigan?
The Detroit metropolitan region holds roughly one-half of Michigan's population	How much of Michigan's population resides in the Detroit metropolitan area? 
Between 2000 and 2010 the city's population fell by 25 percent, changing its ranking from the nation's 10th-largest city to 18th	By how much has Detroit's population fallen this century?
The Governor of Michigan, Rick Snyder, declared a financial emergency for the city in March 2013, appointing an emergency manager	Who is the Governor in Michigan?
By 1773, the population of Detroit was 1,400	What was Detroit's population in 1773?
The region grew based on the lucrative fur trade, in which numerous Native American people had important roles	What trade was instrumental to the growth of this region?
Detroit surrendered without a fight to British troops during the War of 1812 in the Siege of Detroit	In which War was Detroit captured by the British?
Numerous men from Detroit volunteered to fight for the Union during the American Civil War, including the 24th Michigan Infantry Regiment , which fought with distinction and suffered 82% casualties at the Battle of Gettysburg in 1863	What year was the Battle of Gettysburg?
During this period some referred to Detroit as the Paris of the West for its architecture, grand avenues in the Paris style, and for Washington Boulevard, recently electrified by Thomas Edison	What was a nickname for Detroit in the late 19th century?
The labor activism during those years increased influence of union leaders in the city such as Jimmy Hoffa of the Teamsters and Walter Reuther of the Autoworkers	Who was the labor leader of the Teamsters?
The Black Legion, a secret vigilante group, was active in the Detroit area in the 1930s, when one-third of its estimated 20,000 to 30,000 members in Michigan were based in the city	What was the name of a vigilante group in Detroit?
Over the course of three days, 34 people were killed, of whom 25 were African American, and approximately 600 were injured, 75% black people	How many people were killed in the race riot of 1943?
In 1956, Detroit's last heavily used electric streetcar line along the length of Woodward Avenue was removed and replaced with gas-powered buses	In which year was the last electric streetcar line removed?
In June 1963, Rev	In which year did Martin Luther King Jr. give a speech in Detroit?
On August 18, 1970, the NAACP filed suit against Michigan state officials, including Governor William Milliken, charging de facto public school segregation	Who was Governor of Michigan in 1970?
"""Milliken was perhaps the greatest missed opportunity of that period,"" said Myron Orfield, professor of law at the University of Minnesota"	What case is cited as a reason for White people leaving Detroit?
In November 1973, the city elected Coleman Young as its first black mayor	Who was the first black mayor of Detroit?
The gasoline crises of 1973 and 1979 also affected Detroit and the U	What hurt the Auto industry?
The Renaissance Center, a mixed-use office and retail complex, opened in 1977	What group of buildings opened in 1977?
Like many industrial American cities, Detroit reached its population peak in the 1950 census	In which year did Detroit's population peak?
Campus Martius, a reconfiguration of downtown's main intersection as a new park was opened in 2004	In which year was Campus Martius open?
Since 2006, $9 billion has been invested in downtown and surrounding neighborhoods; $5	How much has been invested in Detroit since 2006?
While some have estimated 20,000 stray dogs roam the city, studies have shown the true number to be around 1,000-3,000	How many stray dogs do studies suggest are in Detroit?
The most notable topographical feature in the city is the Detroit Moraine, a broad clay ridge on which the older portions of Detroit and Windsor sit atop, rising approximately 62 feet above the river at its highest point	What is the prominent topographical feature in Detroit?
The Detroit Salt Company mine has over 100 miles of roads within	What company mines salt in Detroit?
Detroit and the rest of southeastern Michigan have a humid continental climate which is influenced by the Great Lakes; the city and close-in suburbs are part of USDA Hardiness zone 6b, with farther-out northern and western suburbs generally falling in zone 6a	What body of water affects Detroit's climate?
These usually occur during spring and summer	When do thunderstorms usually occur in Detroit?
The post modern Neo-Gothic spires of the One Detroit Center were designed to blend with the city's Art Deco skyscrapers	What architectural style does One Detroit Center boast?
While the Downtown and New Center areas contain high-rise buildings, the majority of the surrounding city consists of low-rise structures and single-family homes	What areas of Detroit contain high rises?
It extends from Hart Plaza to the MacArthur Bridge accessing Belle Isle Park (the largest island park in a U	What is the large island park in Detroit?
Lafayette Park is a revitalized neighborhood on the city's east side, part of the Ludwig Mies van der Rohe residential district	What district is Lafayette Park a part of?
A 2009 parcel survey found about a quarter of residential lots in the city to be undeveloped or vacant, and about 10% of the city's housing to be unoccupied	How many of Detroit's residential lots are are underdeveloped?
In April 2008, the city announced a $300-million stimulus plan to create jobs and revitalize neighborhoods, financed by city bonds and paid for by earmarking about 15% of the wagering tax	How much in stimulus money was announced in 2008?
From 2000 to 2009, the city's estimated median household income fell from $29,526 to $26,098	What was the median household income in 2009?
in 2004 to 11th-most affluent in 2009	What is Oakland Counties rank in affluence in 2009?
Since 1950 the city has seen a major shift in its population to the suburbs	Where did the population of Detroit shift to in the second half of the 20th century?
From the 1940s to the 1970s a second wave of Blacks moved to Detroit to escape Jim Crow laws in the south and find jobs	Why did Blacks move to Detroit in the middle if the 20th century?
While Blacks/African-Americans comprised only 13 percent of Michigan's population in 2010, they made up nearly 82 percent of Detroit's population	How much of Michigan's population is Black?
By the 1940s the Mexican community began to settle what is now Mexicantown	When did Mexicantown start to grow?
A portion of Detroit next to eastern Hamtramck includes Bangladeshi Americans, Indian Americans, and Pakistani Americans; nearly all of the Bangladeshi population in Detroit lives in that area	Where does most of the Bangladeshi population in Detroit live?
Midtown is also home to watchmaker Shinola and an array of small and/or startup companies	Which company makes timepieces in Midtown?
 Compuware completed its world headquarters in downtown in 2003	What Tech company is based in Detroit?
The city of Detroit and other private-public partnerships have attempted to catalyze the region's growth by facilitating the building and historical rehabilitation of residential high-rises in the downtown, creating a zone that offers many business tax incentives, creating recreational spaces such as the Detroit RiverWalk, Campus Martius Park, Dequindre Cut Greenway, and Green Alleys in Midtown	Which part of Detroit has gotten billions in investment around the turn of the millennium?
Midtown is one of the most successful areas within Detroit to have a residential occupancy rate of 96%	What part of Detroit still has high population density??
On May 21, 2014, JPMorgan Chase announced that it was injecting $100 million over five years into Detroit's economy, providing development funding for a variety of projects that would increase employment	Which bank announced an investment into Detroit in 2014?
Detroit's proximity to Windsor, Ontario, provides for views and nightlife, along with Ontario's minimum drinking age of 19	Which city has a lower than usual drinking age?
"Detroit's auto industry, some of which was converted to wartime defense production, was an important element of the American ""Arsenal of Democracy"" supporting the Allied powers during World War II"	"What ""Arsenal"" was Detroit a part of ?"
In the 1940s, Detroit blues artist John Lee Hooker became a long-term resident in the city's southwest Delray neighborhood	Which artist resided in Delray?
Other, prominent Motor City R&B stars in the 1950s and early 1960s was Nolan Strong, Andre Williams and Nathaniel Mayer – who all scored local and national hits on the Fortune Records label	Who was a big influence on Smokey Robinson?
Artists were backed by in-house vocalists The Andantes and The Funk Brothers, the Motown house band that was featured in Paul Justman's 2002 documentary film Standing in the Shadows of Motown, based on Allan Slutsky's book of the same name	Who did a documentary on Motown?
In the 1980s, Detroit was an important center of the hardcore punk rock underground with many nationally known bands coming out of the city and its suburbs, such as The Necros, The Meatmen, and Negative Approach	What music genre was big in Detroit in the 1980s?
In the 1990s and the new millennium, the city has produced a number of influential hip hop artists, including Eminem, the hip-hop artist with the highest cumulative sales, hip-hop producer J Dilla, rapper and producer Esham and hip hop duo Insane Clown Posse	Which Detroit artist has the highest hip-hop sales?
Detroit is cited as the birthplace of techno music in the early 1980s	Techno started in which city?
Major theaters in Detroit include the Fox Theatre , Music Hall , the Gem Theatre , Masonic Temple Theatre , the Detroit Opera House , the Fisher Theatre , The Fillmore Detroit , Saint Andrew's Hall, the Majestic Theater, and Orchestra Hall which hosts the renowned Detroit Symphony Orchestra	What building does the Detroit Symphony Orchestra play in?
These museums include the Detroit Institute of Arts, the Detroit Historical Museum, Charles H	What is the name of the art museum in Detroit?
Important history of America and the Detroit area are exhibited at The Henry Ford in Dearborn, the United States' largest indoor-outdoor museum complex	What is the U.S.'s largest museum complex?
The Eastern Market farmer's distribution center is the largest open-air flowerbed market in the United States and has more than 150 foods and specialty businesses	Which market has the largest open air flowerbed in the US?
Within downtown, Campus Martius Park hosts large events, including the annual Motown Winter Blast	Which parks hosts the Winter Bash?
"An important civic sculpture in Detroit is ""The Spirit of Detroit"" by Marshall Fredericks at the Coleman Young Municipal Center"	Who sculpted the Spirit of Detroit?
Detroit is one of 12 American metropolitan areas that are home to professional teams representing the four major sports in North America	How many metropolitan areas boast teams from all major US sports?
The NCAA football Little Caesars Pizza Bowl is held at Ford Field each December	Which bowl game is held in Detroit?
"In the years following the mid-1930s, Detroit was referred to as the ""City of Champions"" after the Tigers, Lions, and Red Wings captured all three major professional sports championships in a seven-month period of time "	What is Detroit's sports related nickname?
The city government is run by a mayor and a nine-member city council and clerk elected on an at-large nonpartisan ballot	How many people are on the city council?
in the Frank Murphy Hall of Justice, in downtown Detroit	Where is the Circuit Court located?
Detroit held the title of murder capital between 1985-1987 with a murder rate around 58 per 100,000	What was Detroit's murder rate in the mid to late 80s?
Nearly two-thirds of all murders in Michigan in 2011 occurred in Detroit	What fraction of Michigan's homicides occurred in Detroit?
Beginning with its incorporation in 1802, Detroit has had a total of 74 mayors	When was Detroit incorporated?
In March 2013, Governor Rick Snyder declared a financial emergency in the city, stating that the city has a $327 million budget deficit and faces more than $14 billion in long-term debt	Who was Michigan's governor in 2013?
Detroit is home to several institutions of higher learning including Wayne State University, a national research university with medical and law schools in the Midtown area offering hundreds of academic degrees and programs	What research university is located in Midtown?
Sacred Heart Major Seminary, originally founded in 1919, is affiliated with Pontifical University of Saint Thomas Aquinas, Angelicum in Rome and offers pontifical degrees as well as civil undergraduate and graduate degrees	What Seminary is located in Detroit?
As of 2013 there are four Catholic grade schools and three Catholic high schools in the City of Detroit, with all of them in the city's west side	How many Catholic high schools are in Detroit?
The Detroit Free Press and The Detroit News are the major daily newspapers, both broadsheet publications published together under a joint operating agreement called the Detroit Newspaper Partnership	Under which agreement are Detroit's major newspapers published?
Also founded in 1935 and based in Detroit the Michigan Chronicle is one of the oldest and most respected African-American weekly newspapers in America	What newspaper was founded in 1935?
Within the city of Detroit, there are over a dozen major hospitals which include the Detroit Medical Center , Henry Ford Health System, St	How many major hospitals are in Detroit?
Detroit Medical Center formally became a part of Vanguard Health Systems on December 30, 2010, as a for profit corporation	Detroit Medical Center has become a part of what Health System?
On February 18, 2015, Canadian Transport Minister Lisa Raitt announced that Canada has agreed to pay the entire cost to build a $250 million U	Who is the Transport Minister in Canada?
Detroit is connected via Interstate 75 and I-96 to Kings Highway 401 and to major Southern Ontario cities such as London, Ontario and the Greater Toronto Area	Which Interstate is the major north-south route?
I-94 runs east–west through Detroit and serves Ann Arbor to the west and Port Huron to the northeast	What is I-94 called?
I-375 is a short spur route in downtown Detroit, an extension of the Chrysler Freeway	Which highway is an extension of the Chrysler Freeway?
9 km2) medieval boundaries and in 2011 had a resident population of 7,375, making it the smallest city in England	As of 2011 what was the population of the core of London?
It is one of the world's leading financial centres and has the fifth-or sixth-largest metropolitan area GDP in the world depending on measurement	Where does London rank in terms of metropolitan area GDP?
London's urban area is the second most populous in the EU, after Paris, with 9,787,426 inhabitants according to the 2011 census	From the 2011 census, London is second in population in the EU to which city?
London is home to numerous museums, galleries, libraries, sporting events and other cultural institutions, including the British Museum, National Gallery, Tate Modern, British Library and 40 West End theatres	How many theaters does London's West End have?
From 1898, it was commonly accepted that the name was of Celtic origin and meant place belonging to a man called *Londinos; this explanation has since been rejected	Early consensus was that London's name originated in what language?
Both structures are on South Bank, at a natural crossing point where the River Effra flows into the River Thames	What river flows into the River Thames?
This lasted only until around 61, when the Iceni tribe led by Queen Boudica stormed it, burning it to the ground	Who was the leader of the Iceni tribe?
With the collapse of Roman rule in the early 5th century, London ceased to be a capital and the walled city of Londinium was effectively abandoned, although Roman civilisation continued in the St Martin-in-the-Fields area until around 450	What area continued to exist after Londinium was abandoned following the end of Roman rule?
It was an area of political and geographical control imposed by the Viking incursions which was formally agreed to by the Danish warlord, Guthrum and west-Saxon king, Alfred the Great in 886 AD	According to the Anglo-Saxon chronicle, who reestablished London in 886 AD?
Westminster Abbey, rebuilt in the Romanesque style by King Edward the Confessor, was one of the grandest churches in Europe	Who rebuilt Westminster Abbey?
William constructed the Tower of London, the first of the many Norman castles in England to be rebuilt in stone, in the southeastern corner of the city, to intimidate the native inhabitants	In what area of London was the Tower of London built?
While the City of Westminster developed into a true capital in governmental terms, its distinct neighbour, the City of London, remained England's largest city and principal commercial centre, and it flourished under its own unique administration, the Corporation of London	What was the administration which governed the City of London called?
During the Tudor period the Reformation produced a gradual shift to Protestantism, much of London passing from church to private ownership	In what era did the Protestant Reformation occur?
After an initial advance by the Royalists in 1642 culminating in the battles of Brentford and Turnham Green, London was surrounded by defensive perimeter wall known as the Lines of Communication	What was the defensive wall that encircled London in 1642 called?
In 1762, George III acquired Buckingham House and it was enlarged over the next 75 years	What was King George II's royal residence beginning in 1762?
London's overcrowded conditions led to cholera epidemics, claiming 14,000 lives in 1848, and 6,000 in 1866	What was the primary cause of the cholera outbreak in 19th century London?
Racial inequality was highlighted by the 1981 Brixton riot	What was the root cause of the Brixton riot in 1981?
Greater London's population declined steadily in the decades after the Second World War, from an estimated peak of 8	What event preceded a substantial decrease in the average population in London? 
To celebrate the start of the 21st century, the Millennium Dome, London Eye and Millennium Bridge were constructed	What were the Millennium Dome, the London Eye, and the Millennium Bridge created to honor?
The administration of London is formed of two tiers—a city-wide, strategic tier and a local tier	London's government administration is comprised of how many tiers?
Her Majesty's Coastguard and the Royal National Lifeboat Institution operate on the River Thames, which is under the jurisdiction of the Port of London Authority from Teddington Lock to the sea	What area of the River Thames does the Port of London Authority's jurisdiction cover?
Many government departments are based close to the Palace of Westminster, particularly along Whitehall, including the Prime Minister's residence at 10 Downing Street	What is the Prime Minister of the UK's official residence?
A fourth police force in London, the Ministry of Defence Police, do not generally become involved with policing the general public	Which police force in London does not typically engage in police activity with the general public?
Outward urban expansion is now prevented by the Metropolitan Green Belt, although the built-up area extends beyond the boundary in places, resulting in a separately defined Greater London Urban Area	What statutory policy minimizes outward expansion of urban London?
London's status as the capital of England, and later the United Kingdom, has never been granted or confirmed officially—by statute or in written form	What title regarding London has never been made official in law or by decree?
The Thames was once a much broader, shallower river with extensive marshlands; at high tide, its shores reached five times their present width	In the past, how much wider was the River Thames than it is today?
The effect of this can be seen below when comparing London Heathrow, 15 miles west of London, with the London Weather Centre, in the city centre	How far from the center of London is London Heathrow Airport?
Further out is, for example, the Tudor period Hampton Court Palace, England's oldest surviving Tudor palace, built by Cardinal Thomas Wolsey c	What is England's oldest standing palace from the Tudor period?
Marble Arch and Wellington Arch, at the north and south ends of Park Lane respectively, have royal connections, as do the Albert Memorial and Royal Albert Hall in Kensington	Where in London are the Albert Memorial and Royal Albert Hall located?
London's skyscrapers such as 30 St Mary Axe, Tower 42, the Broadgate Tower and One Canada Square are mostly in the two financial districts, the City of London and Canary Wharf	What are the financial districts of London known as?
They indicate that 2000 species of flowering plant have been found growing there and that the tidal Thames supports 120 species of fish	How many different species of plant life are known to grow in London?
Another broke into the grounds of Buckingham Palace, reportedly killing some of Queen Elizabeth II's prized pink flamingos	What type of animal belonging to Queen Elizabeth II was killed by an intruding fox on the Buckingham Palace grounds?
Ten of England's eighteen species of bats have been recorded in Epping Forest: soprano, nathusius and common pipistrelles, noctule, serotine, barbastelle, daubenton's, brown Long-eared, natterer's and leisler's	Epping Forest is home for how many species of bats?
A rare population of melanistic, black fallow deer is also maintained at the Deer Sanctuary near Theydon Bois	What rare breed of deer is protected at the Deer Sanctuary at Theydon Bois?
7% of London's population are foreign-born making London the city with the second largest immigrant population, behind New York City, in terms of absolute numbers	London is second only to what city in terms of its foreign population?
London ranks as one of the most expensive cities in the world, alongside Tokyo and Moscow	With which two other cities is London named one of the most expensive in the world?
Across London, Black and Asian children outnumber White British children by about six to four in state schools	What is the ratio of black and Asian schoolchildren to white schoolchildren?
Estimates produced by the Office for National Statistics indicate that the five largest foreign-born groups living in London in the period July 2009 to June 2010 were those born in India, Poland, the Republic of Ireland, Bangladesh and Nigeria	What agency is responsible for compiling London's population data?
Large Hindu communities are in the north-western boroughs of Harrow and Brent, the latter of which is home to Europe's largest Hindu temple, Neasden Temple	What is the name of the largest Hindu temple in Europe?
Stanmore and Canons Park Synagogue has the largest membership of any single Orthodox synagogue in the whole of Europe, overtaking Ilford synagogue in 1998	Which Jewish synagogue boasts the largest membership in Europe?
The most well known of the London accents long ago acquired the Cockney label, which is heard both in London itself, and across the wider South East England region more generally	What is the best-known London accent known as?
The City of London is home to the Bank of England, London Stock Exchange, and Lloyd's of London insurance market	What is the name of the world-famous insurance market based in London?
The Port of London is the second-largest in the United Kingdom, handling 45 million tonnes of cargo each year	What is the second largest port in the UK?
London is one of the leading tourist destinations in the world and in 2015 was ranked as the most visited city in the world with over 65 million visits	According to 2015 data, how many how many visitors gave London its ranking as the number one visited city in the world?
Transport is one of the four main areas of policy administered by the Mayor of London, however the mayor's financial control does not extend to the longer distance rail network that enters London	Which elected official is financially responsible for public transportation in London, except for long-distance railways?
Eight airports use the word London in their name, but most traffic passes through six of these	How many airports are affiliated with London and incorporate the word London in their names?
London City Airport, the smallest and most central airport, in Newham, East London, is focused on business travellers, with a mixture of full service short-haul scheduled flights and considerable business jet traffic	What is the smallest airport in the London area?
Clapham Junction is the busiest station in Europe by the number of trains passing	What is Europe's busiest rail station in terms of train activity?
Some international railway services to Continental Europe were operated during the 20th century as boat trains, such as the Admiraal de Ruijter to Amsterdam and the Night Ferry to Paris and Brussels	In the 20th century the Night Ferry was a boat train that provided connections between London and which cities?
Around £850 million is taken in revenue each year	How much revenue is generated yearly by London's public bus service?
Similar to the Santander Cycles bike hire scheme, the cable car is sponsored in a 10-year deal by the airline Emirates	What is the name of London' bike-for-hire operation?
The inner ring road , the North and South Circular roads , and the outer orbital motorway encircle the city and are intersected by a number of busy radial routes—but very few motorways penetrate into inner London	What type of roadway is widely recognizable in the center of London?
With a few exceptions, motorists are required to pay £10 per day to drive within a defined zone encompassing much of central London	What is the daily cost for most drivers to operate their cars within a given zone in the center of London?
London is a major global centre of higher education teaching and research and its 43 universities form the largest concentration of higher education institutes in Europe	London has the highest concentration of higher education institutions in Europe with how many universities?
The London School of Economics has been described as the world's leading social science institution for both teaching and research	In terms of teaching and research, what is the world's foremost institute of social science?
It includes four large multi-faculty universities – King's College London, Queen Mary, Royal Holloway and UCL – and a number of smaller and more specialised institutions including Birkbeck, the Courtauld Institute of Art, Goldsmiths, Guildhall School of Music and Drama, the Institute of Education, the London Business School, the London School of Economics, the London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine, the Royal Academy of Music, the Central School of Speech and Drama, the Royal Veterinary College and the School of Oriental and African Studies	What school within the University of London would a student seeking a degree in the veterinary medicine likely attend?
A number of universities in London are outside the University of London system, including Brunel University, City University London, Imperial College London, Kingston University, London Metropolitan University, Middlesex University, University of East London, University of West London and University of Westminster, , London South Bank University, Middlesex University, University of the Arts London , University of East London, the University of West London and the University of Westminster	What is the student population of University of Westminster?
London is home to five major medical schools – Barts and The London School of Medicine and Dentistry , King's College London School of Medicine , Imperial College School of Medicine, UCL Medical School and St George's, University of London – and has a large number of affiliated teaching hospitals	How many major medical schools does London boast?
There are a number of business schools in London, including the London School of Business and Finance, Cass Business School , Hult International Business School, ESCP Europe, European Business School London, Imperial College Business School and the London Business School	City University London is related to what specialized business school?
The majority of primary and secondary schools and further-education colleges in London are controlled by the London boroughs or otherwise state-funded; leading examples include City and Islington College, Ealing, Hammersmith and West London College, Leyton Sixth Form College, Tower Hamlets College and Bethnal Green Academy	Who overseas the public primary and secondary school systems in London?
Within the City of Westminster in London the entertainment district of the West End has its focus around Leicester Square, where London and world film premieres are held, and Piccadilly Circus, with its giant electronic advertisements	What is the entertainment center of London known as?
6 km) long Upper Street, extending northwards from Angel, has more bars and restaurants than any other street in the United Kingdom	What street in Islington boasts more bars and restaurants than any other street in Britain?
Traditional parades include November's Lord Mayor's Show, a centuries-old event celebrating the annual appointment of a new Lord Mayor of the City of London with a procession along the streets of the City, and June's Trooping the Colour, a formal military pageant performed by regiments of the Commonwealth and British armies to celebrate the Queen's Official Birthday	The Lord Mayor's Show occurs annually in what month?
Writers closely associated with the city are the diarist Samuel Pepys, noted for his eyewitness account of the Great Fire, Charles Dickens, whose representation of a foggy, snowy, grimy London of street sweepers and pickpockets has been a major influence on people's vision of early Victorian London, and Virginia Woolf, regarded as one of the foremost modernist literary figures of the 20th century	Who witnessed first-hand and wrote about the Great Fire of 1666?
William Shakespeare spent a large part of his life living and working in London; his contemporary Ben Jonson was also based there, and some of his work—most notably his play The Alchemist—was set in the city	What famous Elizabethan playwright spent much of his life in London?
Working Title Films has its headquarters in London	What major film production company calls London home?
The first of these to be established was the British Museum in Bloomsbury, in 1753	When was the British Museum in Bloomsbury founded?
The National Portrait Gallery was founded in 1856 to house depictions of figures from British history; its holdings now comprise the world's most extensive collection of portraits	What is the National Portrait Gallery known for housing?
The UK's largest pipe organ is at the Royal Albert Hall	What musical instrument is situated at Royal Albert Hall?
The city is home to the first and original Hard Rock Cafe and the Abbey Road Studios where The Beatles recorded many of their hits	What famous chain of music-themed restaurants opened its first establishment in London?
London was instrumental in the development of punk music, with figures such as the Sex Pistols, The Clash, and Vivienne Westwood all based in the city	London was a major factor in the rise of what musical genre?
The largest parks in the central area of London are three of the eight Royal Parks, namely Hyde Park and its neighbour Kensington Gardens in the west, and Regent's Park to the north	How many royal parks are located in the center of London?
Close to Richmond Park is Kew Gardens which has the world's largest collection of living plants	What famous London gardens were named as a World Heritage Site by UNESCO in 2003?
Access to canals and rivers has improved recently, including the creation of the Thames Path, some 28 miles of which is within Greater London, and The Wandle Trail; this runs 12 miles through South London along the River Wandle, a tributary of the River Thames	What river is a tributary of the River Thames?
London's most popular sport is football and it has fourteen League football clubs, including five in the Premier League: Arsenal, Chelsea, Crystal Palace, Tottenham Hotspur, and West Ham United	What is London's most popular athletic sport?
Twickenham Stadium in south-west London is the national rugby union stadium, and has a capacity of 82,000 now that the new south stand has been completed	What is the name of the national rugby union stadium located in South-West London?
2 trillion - same value as that of Brazil annual GDP	London's residential property value is equivalent to what nation's GDP?
"Cambridge English Dictionary states that culture is, ""the way of life, especially the general customs and beliefs, of a particular group of people at a particular time"	" How does the Cambridge English Dictionary define ""Culture"" in short?"
This ability arose with the evolution of behavioral modernity in humans around 50,000 years ago	Around when were humans able to understand to some degree what culture really meant?
In common parlance, culture is often used to refer specifically to the symbolic markers used by ethnic groups to distinguish themselves visibly from each other such as body modification, clothing or jewelry	What was sometimes used or worn by early humans to form some type of culture visibly?
"When used as a count noun ""a culture"", is the set of customs, traditions and values of a society or community, such as an ethnic group or nation"	"What does the term ""Count Noun"" mean?"
"The modern term ""culture"" is based on a term used by the Ancient Roman orator Cicero in his Tusculanae Disputationes, where he wrote of a cultivation of the soul or ""cultura animi"", using an agricultural metaphor for the development of a philosophical soul, understood teleologically as the highest possible ideal for human development"	"What is the modern term ""culture"" based on?"
Social conflict and the development of technologies can produce changes within a society by altering social dynamics and promoting new cultural models, and spurring or enabling generative action	What changes do Social conflicts along with developing of technologies have on culture? 
War or competition over resources may impact technological development or social dynamics	What may impact social dynamics and technical development?
"Immanuel Kant has formulated an individualist definition of ""enlightenment"" similar to the concept of bildung: ""Enlightenment is man's emergence from his self-incurred immaturity"	"Who said the following statement? ""Enlightenment is man's emergence from his self-incurred immaturity""."
In 1795, the Prussian linguist and philosopher Wilhelm von Humboldt called for an anthropology that would synthesize Kant's and Herder's interests	Which Prussian linguist called for an anthropology?
"According to Bastian, all human societies share a set of ""elementary ideas"" ; different cultures, or different ""folk ideas"" , are local modifications of the elementary ideas"	According to Bastian, what did he believe all human societies shared?
In practice, culture referred to an élite ideal and was associated with such activities as art, classical music, and haute cuisine	What did culture refer to in practice?
"Matthew Arnold contrasted ""culture"" with anarchy; other Europeans, following philosophers Thomas Hobbes and Jean-Jacques Rousseau, contrasted ""culture"" with ""the state of nature"""	"How did Matthew Arnold view ""Culture"" with?"
"These critics considered folk music (as produced by ""the folk"", i"	What type of music did critics associate with corrupt high culture?
"Although anthropologists worldwide refer to Tylor's definition of culture, in the 20th century ""culture"" emerged as the central and unifying concept of American anthropology, where it most commonly refers to the universal human capacity to classify and encode human experiences symbolically, and to communicate symbolically encoded experiences socially"	Who's definition of culture did anthropologist accept?
"For Georg Simmel , culture referred to ""the cultivation of individuals through the agency of external forms which have been objectified in the course of history"""	Who referred to culture as a cultivation of individuals?
Cultural sociology first emerged in Weimar Germany , where sociologists such as Alfred Weber used the term Kultursoziologie 	Where did sociology culture stem from?
The sociology of culture grew from the intersection between sociology with the growing discipline of anthropology, where in researchers pioneered ethnographic strategies for describing and analyzing a variety of cultures around the world	Which three early theorist helped shape sociology of culture?
"Following nineteenth-century Romantics, they identified ""culture"" with consumption goods and leisure activities "	What did Marxist like Stuart Hall and Raymond Williams they identify culture as?
"In the United States, ""Cultural Studies"" focuses largely on the study of popular culture, that is, on the social meanings of mass-produced consumer and leisure goods"	"In the U.S what does ""Cultural Studies"" focus largely on in this field?"
From the 1970s onward, Stuart Hall's pioneering work, along with that of his colleagues Paul Willis, Dick Hebdige, Tony Jefferson, and Angela McRobbie, created an international intellectual movement	Who did Stuart Hall work along side with?
In the context of cultural studies, the idea of a text includes not only written language, but also films, photographs, fashion or hairstyles: the texts of cultural studies comprise all the meaningful artifacts of culture	The idea of text in cultural studies can include what forms other than written language?
Scholars in the United Kingdom and the United States developed somewhat different versions of cultural studies after the late 1970s	Around when did the United States and United Kingdom began to develop different versions of cultural studies?
"In the United States, Lindlof and Taylor write, ""Cultural studies grounded in a pragmatic, liberal-pluralist tradition"""	Which two wrote Cultural studies grounded in a pragmatic, liberal-pluralist tradition?
Raimon Panikkar pointed out 29 ways in which cultural change can be brought about	How many ways did Raimon Panikkar believed cultural change can be based on?
The Sahara is the largest hot desert in the world	What is the third hottest desert in the world?
The central part of the Sahara is hyperarid, with little to no vegetation	What is the central part of the Sahara Desert?
To the north, the Sahara skirts the Mediterranean Sea in Egypt and portions of Libya, but in Cyrenaica and the Maghreb, the Sahara borders the Mediterranean forest, woodland, and scrub ecoregions of northern Africa, all of which have a Mediterranean climate characterized by hot summers and cool and rainy winters	What sea is North of the Sahara Desert?
To the south, the Sahara is bounded by the Sahel, a belt of dry tropical savanna with a summer rainy season that extends across Africa from east to west	What is to the south of the Sahara?
The Sahara is the world's largest low-latitude hot desert	What is the world's largest low latitude hot desert?
The permanent dissolution of clouds allows unhindered light and thermal radiation	What allows unhindered light and thermal radiation?
The rainfall inhibition and the dissipation of cloud cover are most accentuated over the eastern section of the Sahara rather than the western	What section of the Sahara's cloud cover are the most accentuated?
The effects of local surface low pressure are extremely limited because upper-level subsidence still continues to block any form of air ascent	What is blocked due to local surface low pressure?
The primary source of rain in the Sahara is the equatorial low a continuous belt of low-pressure systems near the equator which bring the brief, short and irregular rainy season to the Sahel and the southern Sahara	What is the primary source of rain in the Sahara?
The annual average direct solar irradiation is around 2,800 kWh/ in the Great Desert	What is the largest hottest continuously large area worldwide?
The thin northern fringe of the desert receives more winter cloudiness and rainfall due to the arrival of low pressure systems over the Mediterranean Sea along the polar front, although very attenuated by the rain shadow effects of the mountains and the annual average rainfall ranges from 100 mm to 250 mm 	What is the reason the northern fringe receives more cloudiness and rainfall?
The South Saharan steppe and woodlands ecoregion is a narrow band running east and west between the hyper-arid Sahara and the Sahel savannas to the south	Which directions does the South Saharan run?
The central Sahara is estimated to include five hundred species of plants, which is extremely low considering the huge extent of the area	What is the number of plants in the Central Sahara?
There remain fewer than 250 mature cheetahs, which are very cautious, fleeing any human presence	How many cheetahs remain in the Northwest Africa area?
human activities are more likely to affect the habitat in areas of permanent water or where water comes close to the surface	What activities from these mammals will likely affect habitat areas?
People lived on the edge of the desert thousands of years ago since the last ice age	When did people start living on the edge of the desert?
During the Neolithic Era, before the onset of desertification, around 9500 BCE the central Sudan had been a rich environment supporting a large population ranging across what is now barren desert, like the Wadi el-Qa'ab	During what era was the central Sudan rich in environment?
By 6000 BCE predynastic Egyptians in the southwestern corner of Egypt were herding cattle and constructing large buildings	What were Egyptians herding in the early BCE period?
By 3400 BCE, the Sahara was as dry as it is today, due to reduced precipitation and higher temperatures resulting from a shift in the Earth's orbit	By What time period was the Sahara dry like it is today?
Greek traders spread along the eastern coast of the desert, establishing trading colonies along the Red Sea	Where did the Greeks established their trading colonies?
An urban civilization, the Garamantes, arose around 500 BCE in the heart of the Sahara, in a valley that is now called the Wadi al-Ajal in Fezzan, Libya	What time period did the Garamantes arrive in?
The Byzantine Empire ruled the northern shores of the Sahara from the 5th to the 7th centuries	What group of people ruled the northern shoes of the Sahara?
In the 16th century the northern fringe of the Sahara, such as coastal regencies in present-day Algeria and Tunisia, as well as some parts of present-day Libya, together with the semi-autonomous kingdom of Egypt, were occupied by the Ottoman Empire	During the 1500 who was a valued part of the Ottoman Empire?
European colonialism in the Sahara began in the 19th century	What time period did the colonialism of the Sahara begin?
Arabic dialects are the most widely spoken languages in the Sahara	What is the most common dialect spoken in the Sahara?
The phrase can be traced back to 16th century Britain, and in the following century the Scottish theologian Samuel Rutherford used the phrase in his argument against the divine right of kings	"Which Scottish theologian is first credited with using the phrase ""rule of law""?"
In this sense, it stands in contrast to an autocracy, dictatorship, or oligarchy where the rulers are held above the law	In what forms of government are leaders not held to the same laws as ordinary citizens?
In the West, the ancient Greeks initially regarded the best form of government as rule by the best men	On what principle did the Ancient Greeks first think was best for governance? 
In the Old Testament, there was some language in Deuteronomy imposing restrictions on the Jewish king, regarding such things as how many wives he could have, and how many horses he could own for his personal use	In which book of the Bible are limitations on Jewish monarchs outlined?
"In 1607, English Chief Justice Sir Edward Coke said in the Case of Prohibitions ""that the law was the golden met-wand and measure to try the causes of the subjects; and which protected His Majesty in safety and peace: with which the King was greatly offended, and said, that then he should be under the law, which was treason to affirm, as he said; to which I said, that Bracton saith, quod Rex non debed esse sub homine, sed sub Deo et lege (That the King ought not to be under any man but under God and the law"	To what did English Chief Justice Sir Edward Coke compare the law?
"Among modern legal theorists, one finds that at least two principal conceptions of the rule of law can be identified: a formalist or ""thin"" definition, and a substantive or ""thick"" definition; one occasionally encounters a third ""functional"" conception"	What is another word for a thin definition?
Most legal theorists believe that the rule of law has purely formal characteristics, meaning that the law must be publicly declared, with prospective application, and possess the characteristics of generality, equality, and certainty, but there are no requirements with regard to the content of the law	According to legal theorists, what characteristics must the rule of law have?
"The ""formal"" interpretation is more widespread than the ""substantive"" interpretation"	Which interpretation of the rule of law is used on a larger scale?
"The functional interpretation of the term ""rule of law"", consistent with the traditional English meaning, contrasts the ""rule of law"" with the ""rule of man"	According to the functional interpretation, what principle is opposite of the rule of man?
""" Based on this definition the Worldwide Governance Indicators project has developed aggregate measurements for the rule of law in more than 200 countries, as seen in the map below"	For how many countries have rule of law aggregate measurements been developed?
All government officers of the United States, including the President, the Justices of the Supreme Court, state judges and legislators, and all members of Congress, pledge first and foremost to uphold the Constitution	What does the President and Supreme Court Justices vow to stand by?
Law Professor Frederick Mark Gedicks disagrees, writing that Cicero, Augustine, Thomas Aquinas, and the framers of the U	Who disagrees with the ideas proposed by John Harrison?
” By 1941, a compromise had emerged	When was a compromise reached over administrative procedures for law determination?
"James Wilson said during the Philadelphia Convention in 1787 that, ""Laws may be unjust, may be unwise, may be dangerous, may be destructive; and yet not be so unconstitutional as to justify the Judges in refusing to give them effect"	When was the Philadelphia Convention?
East Asian cultures are influenced by two schools of thought, Confucianism, which advocated good governance as rule by leaders who are benevolent and virtuous, and Legalism, which advocated strict adherence to law	What East Asian philosophy emphasized virtuous leadership? 
In countries such as China and Vietnam, the transition to a market economy has been a major factor in a move toward the rule of law, because a rule of law is important to foreign investors and to economic development	Which two Asian countries have started to adopt the rule of law?
In Thailand, a kingdom that has had a constitution since the initial attempt to overthrow the absolute monarchy system in 1932, the rule of law has been more of a principle than actual practice	Where has the rule of law been more of a theory than a way of life? 
In India, the longest constitutional text in the history of the world has governed that country since 1950	What country has the longest version of a constitution?
In 1959, an international gathering of over 185 judges, lawyers, and law professors from 53 countries, meeting in New Delhi and speaking as the International Commission of Jurists, made a declaration as to the fundamental principle of the rule of law	When did the Declaration of Delhi happen?
The General Assembly has considered rule of law as an agenda item since 1992, with renewed interest since 2006 and has adopted resolutions at its last three sessions	When the rule of law become an agenda item for the General Assembly?
The International Development Law Organization is an intergovernmental organization with a joint focus on the promotion of rule of law and development	What organization works to further the understanding and adherence to the rule of law?
One important aspect of the rule-of-law initiatives is the study and analysis of the rule of law’s impact on economic development	The impact of the rule of law on what is closely studied?
To date, the term “rule of law” has been used primarily in the English-speaking countries, and it is not yet fully clarified even with regard to such well-established democracies as, for instance, Sweden, Denmark, France, Germany, or Japan	What language is spoken in most rule of law countries?
The economist F	What is F.A. Hayek's profession?
The highest elevation in Tibet is Mount Everest, earth's highest mountain rising 8,848 m above sea level	What is the highest elevation in Tibet?
The current borders of Tibet were generally established in the 18th century	When were the current borders of Tibet established?
The region maintained its autonomy until 1951 when, following the Battle of Chamdo, Tibet became incorporated into the People's Republic of China, and the previous Tibetan government was abolished in 1959 after a failed uprising	In what year was the Tibetan government abolished?
The economy of Tibet is dominated by subsistence agriculture, though tourism has become a growing industry in recent decades	What is the economy of Tibet dominated by?
"The Tibetan name for their land, Bod བོད་, means ""Tibet"" or ""Tibetan Plateau"", although it originally meant the central region around Lhasa, now known in Tibetan as Ü"	What is the Tibetan name for the area?
"The modern Standard Chinese exonym for the ethnic Tibetan region is Zangqu , which derives by metonymy from the Tsang region around Shigatse plus the addition of a Chinese suffix, 区 qū, which means ""area, district, region, ward"""	How is the ethnic Tibetan region referred to as a modern Standard Chinese exonym?
The best-known medieval Chinese name for Tibet is Tubo 	What is the best-known medieval Chinese name for Tibet?
American Tibetologist Elliot Sperling has argued in favor of a recent tendency by some authors writing in Chinese to revive the term Tubote for modern use in place of Xizang, on the grounds that Tubote more clearly includes the entire Tibetan plateau rather than simply the Tibet Autonomous Region	Who is an American Tibetologist?
However, if the latter group of Tibetan-type languages are included in the calculation, then 'greater Tibetan' is spoken by approximately 6 million people across the Tibetan Plateau	How many people across the Tibetan Plateau speak 'greater Tibetan'?
Although spoken Tibetan varies according to the region, the written language, based on Classical Tibetan, is consistent throughout	What is written Tibetan base on?
The earliest Tibetan historical texts identify the Zhang Zhung culture as a people who migrated from the Amdo region into what is now the region of Guge in western Tibet	Where did the Zhang Zhung people migrate from?
The history of a unified Tibet begins with the rule of Songtsän Gampo , who united parts of the Yarlung River Valley and founded the Tibetan Empire	Who founded the Tibetan Empire?
In 821/822 CE Tibet and China signed a peace treaty	When did Tibet and China sign a peace treaty?
The Mongol Yuan dynasty, through the Bureau of Buddhist and Tibetan Affairs, or Xuanzheng Yuan, ruled Tibet through a top-level administrative department	Which dynasty ruled Tibet through a top-level administrative department?
Tibet retained nominal power over religious and regional political affairs, while the Mongols managed a structural and administrative rule over the region, reinforced by the rare military intervention	Who managed religious and regional political affairs?
Between 1346 and 1354, Tai Situ Changchub Gyaltsen toppled the Sakya and founded the Phagmodrupa Dynasty	When was the Phagmodrupa Dynasty founded?
The 5th Dalai Lama is known for unifying the Tibetan heartland under the control of the Gelug school of Tibetan Buddhism, after defeating the rival Kagyu and Jonang sects and the secular ruler, the Tsangpa prince, in a prolonged civil war	Who is known for unifying the Tibetan heartland?
Qing dynasty rule in Tibet began with their 1720 expedition to the country when they expelled the invading Dzungars	When did the Qing dynasty begin to rule in Tibet?
For several decades, peace reigned in Tibet, but in 1792 the Qing Qianlong Emperor sent a large Chinese army into Tibet to push the invading Nepalese out	When did the Qing Qianlong Emperor send a large Chinese army into Tibet?
This period also saw some contacts with Jesuits and Capuchins from Europe, and in 1774 a Scottish nobleman, George Bogle, came to Shigatse to investigate prospects of trade for the British East India Company	When did George Bogle come to Shigatse to investigate prospects of trade.
In 1904, a British expedition to Tibet, spurred in part by a fear that Russia was extending its power into Tibet as part of The Great Game, invaded the country, hoping that negotiations with the 13th Dalai Lama would be more effective than with Chinese representatives	When did a British expedition to Tibet invade the country?
After the Xinhai Revolution toppled the Qing dynasty and the last Qing troops were escorted out of Tibet, the new Republic of China apologized for the actions of the Qing and offered to restore the Dalai Lama's title	When did the Xinhai Revolution topple the Qing dynasty?
After the Dalai Lama's government fled to Dharamsala, India, during the 1959 Tibetan Rebellion, it established a rival government-in-exile	Where did the Dalai Lama's government flee to during the 1959 Tibetan Rebellion?
In 1980, General Secretary and reformist Hu Yaobang visited Tibet and ushered in a period of social, political, and economic liberalization	When did Hu Yaobang visit Tibet?
Mount Everest, located on the border with Nepal, is, at 8,848 metres , the highest mountain on earth	On which border of Tibet is Mount Everest located?
The Indus and Brahmaputra rivers originate from a lake in Western Tibet, near Mount Kailash	Which mountain is a holy pilgrimage for both Hindus and Tibetans?
The atmosphere is severely dry nine months of the year, and average annual snowfall is only 18 inches , due to the rain shadow effect	What is the average annual snowfall in Tibet?
Tibet is ranked the lowest among China’s 31 provinces on the Human Development Index according to UN Development Programme data	Where is Tibet ranked among China's 31 provinces on the UN's Human Development Index?
From January 18–20, 2010 a national conference on Tibet and areas inhabited by Tibetans in Sichuan, Yunnan, Gansu and Qinghai was held in China and a substantial plan to improve development of the areas was announced	In what year was a national conference on Tibet held in China?
According to tradition the original ancestors of the Tibetan people, as represented by the six red bands in the Tibetan flag, are: the Se, Mu, Dong, Tong, Dru and Ra	How are the original ancestors of the Tibetan people represented?
Religion is extremely important to the Tibetans and has a strong influence over all aspects of their lives	What has a strong influence over all aspect of Tibetans lives?
In Tibetan cities, there are small communities of Muslims, known as Kachee , who trace their origin to immigrants from three main regions: Kashmir , Ladakh and the Central Asian Turkic countries	What are Tibetan Muslims known as?
Roman Catholic Jesuits and Capuchins arrived from Europe in the 17th and 18th centuries	When did Roman Catholic Jesuits and Capuchins arrive in Tibet from Europe?
In 1661 another Jesuit, Johann Grueber, crossed Tibet from Sining to Lhasa , before heading on to Nepal	When did Johann Grueber cross Tibet on the way to Nepal?
"In 1877, the Protestant James Cameron from the China Inland Mission walked from Chongqing to Batang in Garzê Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture, Sichuan province, and ""brought the Gospel to the Tibetan people"	When did Protestant James Cameron bring the Gospel to the Tibetan people?
Formerly the residence of the Dalai Lama, it contains over one thousand rooms within thirteen stories, and houses portraits of the past Dalai Lamas and statues of the Buddha	Who used to reside in the Potala Palace?
Tibetan music often involves chanting in Tibetan or Sanskrit, as an integral part of the religion	In what languages is Tibetan music often chanted in?
Tibet has various festivals that are commonly performed to worship the Buddha throughout the year	What is worshipped during Tibet's various festibals?
The most important crop in Tibet is barley, and dough made from barley flour—called tsampa—is the staple food of Tibet	What is the most important crop in Tibet?
An exhibition game is a sporting event whose prize money and impact on the player's or the team's rankings is either zero or otherwise greatly reduced	What is 'a friendly' another term for?
Several sports leagues hold all-star games to showcase their best players against each other, while other exhibitions games may pit participants from two different leagues or countries to unofficially determine who would be the best in the world	What type of exhibition game showcases the best players?
In the early days of association football, known simply as football or soccer, friendly matches were the most common type of match	What were the most common type of matches in the early days of soccer?
Since the introduction of league football, most club sides play a number of friendlies before the start of each season 	When do football clubs still play friendlies?
International teams also play friendlies, generally in preparation for the qualifying or final stages of major tournaments	What do friendlies help international teams prepare for?
International friendlies give team managers the opportunity to experiment with team selection and tactics before the tournament proper, and also allow them to assess the abilities of players they may potentially select for the tournament squad	What do friendlies allow managers to experiment with?
"In the UK and Ireland, ""exhibition match"" and ""friendly match"" refer to two different types of matches"	"Where are ""exhibition match"" and ""friendly match"" not synonymous?"
Under the 1995–2004 National Hockey League collective bargaining agreement, teams were limited to nine preseason games	When did the NFL limit teams to 9 preseason games?
The Flying Fathers, a Canadian group of Catholic priests, regularly toured North America playing exhibition hockey games for charity	What nationality is the Flying Fathers team?
All MLB teams maintain a spring-training base in Arizona or Florida	Which states do MLB teams do spring training in?
Several MLB teams used to play regular exhibition games during the year against nearby teams in the other major league, but regular-season interleague play has made such games unnecessary	What development has made it unnecessary for MLB teams to play exhibition games with teams from other leagues?
It also used to be commonplace to have a team play an exhibition against Minor League affiliates during the regular season, but worries of injuries to players, along with travel issues, have made this very rare	What concerns have reduced Minor League exhibition games?
National Basketball Association teams play eight preseason games per year	How many preseason games do NBA teams play?
However, from 1971 to 1975, NBA teams played preseason exhibitions against American Basketball Association teams	When did the NBA play preseason games against the ABA?
They played travelling teams made up of former college players on teams such as Athletes in Action or a team sponsored by Marathon Oil	What is an example of a corporate sponsor of a basketball team?
Every NFL team plays exactly four pre-season exhibition games a year, two at home and two away, with the exception of two teams each year who play a fifth game, the Pro Football Hall of Fame Game	How many preseason exhibition games does an NFL team play?
The Arena Football League briefly had a two-game exhibition season in the early 2000s, a practice that ended in 2003 with a new television contract	How many exhibition games did the Arena Football League have per year in the early 2000s?
True exhibition games between opposing colleges at the highest level do not exist in college football; due to the importance of opinion polling in the top level of college football, even exhibition games would not truly be exhibitions because they could influence the opinions of those polled	What consideration is more important for college teams than exhibition games?
However, most of the major FBS teams annually schedule early season non-conference preseason home games against lesser opponents that are lower-tier FBS, Football Championship, or Division II schools, which often result in lopsided victories in favor of the FBS teams and act as exhibition games in all but name, though they additionally provide a large appearance fee and at least one guaranteed television appearance for the smaller school	Major FBS teams can have lopsided victories against what kinds of lesser opponents?
High school football teams frequently participate in controlled scrimmages with other teams during preseason practice, but exhibition games are rare because of league rules and concerns about finances, travel and player injuries, along with enrollments not being registered until the early part of August in most school districts under the traditional September–June academic term	When is the usual high school academic term?
The NASCAR Sprint Cup Series holds two exhibition events annually - the Sprint Unlimited, held at Daytona International Speedway at the start of the season, and the NASCAR Sprint All-Star Race, held at Charlotte Motor Speedway midway through the season	How many exhibition events per year does the NASCAR Sprint Cup have?
Its founding purpose was to serve the Northwest Territory, an area that today includes the states of Ohio, Indiana, Illinois, Michigan, Wisconsin and parts of Minnesota	What was Northwestern's founding purpose in 1851?
The foundation of Northwestern University is traceable to a meeting on May 31, 1850 of nine prominent Chicago businessmen, Methodist leaders and attorneys who had formed the idea of establishing a university to serve what had once been known as the Northwest Territory	In what environment was the foundation for Northwestern University planned on May 31, 1850?
The first building, Old College, opened on November 5, 1855	What was the name of the first building opened in 1855?
Northwestern fielded its first intercollegiate football team in 1882, later becoming a founding member of the Big Ten Conference	What sports team did Northwestern field its first of in 1882?
Under Walter Dill Scott's presidency from 1920 to 1939, Northwestern began construction of an integrated campus in Chicago designed by James Gamble Rogers to house the professional schools; established the Kellogg School of Management; and built several prominent buildings on the Evanston campus, Dyche Stadium and Deering Library among others	What type of campus did Northwestern begin construction of during Walter Dill Scott's presidency?
Like other American research universities, Northwestern was transformed by World War II	Which war transformed many colleges, including Northwestern?
In 1999, Northwestern student journalists uncovered information exonerating Illinois death row inmate Anthony Porter two days before his scheduled execution, and the Innocence Project has since exonerated 10 more men	In 1999, who uncovered information that exonerated death row inmate Anthony Porter only 2 days before his scheduled death?
Purple became Northwestern's official color in 1892, replacing black and gold after a university committee concluded that too many other universities had used these colors	What has been Northwestern's official color since 1892?
0 ha) by means of a lakefill in Lake Michigan	How did Northwestern create 84 additional acres in the 1960's?
The Chicago Transit Authority's elevated train running through Evanston is called the Purple Line, taking its name from Northwestern's school color	What is the name of the Chicago Transit Authority's elevated train through Evanston?
The architect James Gamble Rogers was commissioned to create a master plan for the principal buildings on the new campus which he designed in collegiate gothic style	What style did architect James Gamble Rogers use for the principal buildings on the new Chicago campus?
Through the Medill School of Journalism and School of Communication, NU-Q offers bachelor's degrees in journalism and communication respectively	What branch did Northwestern open in Education City, Doha, Qatar?
In January 2009, the Green Power Partnership listed Northwestern as one of the top 10 universities in the country in purchasing energy from renewable sources	In 2009, who named Northwestern as one of the top 10 universities in the country in purchasing renewable energy?
Northwestern requires that all new buildings be LEED-certified	What is the required certification for all Northwestern buildings?
Northwestern is privately owned and is governed by an appointed Board of Trustees	Who governs Northwestern?
Accredited by the North Central Association of Colleges and Schools and the respective national professional organizations for chemistry, psychology, business, education, journalism, music, engineering, law, and medicine, the university offers 124 undergraduate programs and 145 graduate and professional programs	How many undergraduate programs are offered by Northwestern?
The four-year, full-time undergraduate program comprises the majority of enrollments at the university and emphasizes instruction in the arts and sciences, plus the professions of engineering, journalism, communication, music, and education	Which 4-year program comprises the majority of enrollments at Northwestern?
Undergraduate tuition for the 2012/13 school year was $61,240; this includes the basic tuition of $43,380, fees (health $200, etc	What was the total undergrad tuition for the 2012/2013 school year?
6% of undergraduate students are enrolled in the Weinberg College of Arts and Sciences, 21	In the fall of 2014, which school did 40.6% of undergraduates enroll in?
"Admissions are characterized as ""most selective"" by U"	How selective are admissions at Northwestern characterized by U.S. News & World Report?
In April 2016, Northwestern announced that it signed on to the Chicago Star Partnership, a City Colleges initiative	What City College initiative did Northwestern announce signing on with in 2016?
The Northwestern library system consists of four libraries on the Evanston campus including the present main library, University Library and the original library building, Deering Library; three libraries on the Chicago campus; and the library affiliated with Garrett-Evangelical Theological Seminary	How many libraries are on the Evanston campus?
"Northwestern was elected to the Association of American Universities in 1917 and remains a research university with ""very high"" research activity"	When was Northwestern elected to the Association of American Universities?
Northwestern is home to the Center for Interdisciplinary Exploration and Research in Astrophysics, Northwestern Institute for Complex Systems, Nanoscale Science and Engineering Center, Materials Research Center, Institute for Policy Research, International Institute for Nanotechnology, Center for Catalysis and Surface Science, Buffet Center for International and Comparative Studies, the Initiative for Sustainability and Energy at Northwestern and the Argonne/Northwestern Solar Energy Research Center and other centers for interdisciplinary research	Where is the home of the Center for Catalysis and Surface Science?
Dance Marathon, a 30-hour philanthropic event, has raised more than 13 million dollars in its history for various children's charities	How much money has the traditional Northwestern Dance Marathon raised for children's charities?
They will also jingle keys at the beginning of each kickoff	What do students traditionally do at the beginning of each football game kickoff?
Two annual productions are especially notable: the Waa-Mu show, and the Dolphin show	What are the two most notable productions each year at Northwestern?
Annual events include Dance Marathon, a thirty-hour event that raised more than a million dollars for charity in 2011; and Project Pumpkin, a Halloween celebration hosted by the Northwestern Community Development Corps to which more than 800 local children are invited for an afternoon of games and sweets	What 30 hour event raised more than a million dollars for charity in 2011?
In Winter 2013, 39% of undergraduates were affiliated with a fraternity or sorority	What percentage of undergraduates were affiliated with a fraternity or sorority in Winter 2013?
The Daily Northwestern is the main student newspaper	What is the name of Northwestern's main student newspaper?
The Northwestern University Law Review is a scholarly legal publication and student organization at Northwestern University School of Law	What is the name of the scholarly legal publication at Northwestern School of Law?
The Northwestern Interdisciplinary Law Review is a scholarly legal publication published annually by an editorial board of Northwestern University undergraduates	What journal was founded in 2008 that features articles by professors and law students?
Sherman Ave is a humor website that formed in January 2011	What is the name Northwestern's humor website formed in 2011?
Politics & Policy was founded at Northwestern and is dedicated to the analysis of current events and public policy	What is the publication that is dedicated to the analysis of current events and public policy?
Northwestern fields 19 intercollegiate athletic teams in addition to numerous club sports	How many men's intercollegiate athletic teams are fielded by Northwestern?
The football team plays at Ryan Field ; the basketball, wrestling, and volleyball teams play at Welsh-Ryan Arena	Where do Northwestern's basketball, wrestling, and volleyball teams play?
The mascot of Northwestern Athletics is Willie the Wildcat	Who is the mascot of Northwestern Athletics?
Northwestern's football team has made 73 appearances in the top 10 of the AP poll since 1936 and has won eight Big Ten conference championships since 1903	How many appearances has Northwestern's football team made in the top 10 AP poll since 1936?
In 1998, two former Northwestern basketball players were charged and convicted for sports bribery as a result of being paid to shave points in games against three other Big Ten schools during the 1995 season	What were 2 former Northwestern basketball players charged and convicted for in 1998?
The university employs 3,401 full-time faculty members across its eleven schools, including 18 members of the National Academy of Sciences, 65 members of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, 19 members of the National Academy of Engineering, and 6 members of the Institute of Medicine	How many full-time faculty members does Northwestern employ?
Senator and presidential candidate George McGovern, Nobel Prize–winning economist George J	Which of Northwestern's alumni is notable for becoming a U.S. Senator and presidential candidate?
Amsterdam-based comedy theater Boom Chicago was founded by Northwestern alumni, and the school has become a training ground for future The Second City, I	Who founded the Amsterdam based comedy theater Boom Chicago?
The Medill School of Journalism has produced notable journalists and political activists including 38 Pulitzer Prize laureates	How many Pulitzer Prize laureates attended the Medill School of Journalism?
The Feinberg School of Medicine has produced a number of notable graduates, including Mary Harris Thompson, Class of 1870, ad eundem, first female surgeon in Chicago, first female surgeon at Cook County Hospital, and founder of the Mary Thomson Hospital, Roswell Park, Class of 1876, prominent surgeon for whom the Roswell Park Cancer Institute in Buffalo, New York, is named, Daniel Hale Williams, Class of 1883, performed the first successful American open heart surgery; only black charter member of the American College of Surgeons, Charles Horace Mayo, Class of 1888, co-founder of Mayo Clinic, Carlos Montezuma, Class of 1889, one of the first Native Americans to receive a Doctor of Medicine degree from any school, and founder of the Society of American Indians, Howard T	Which graduate of The Feinburg School of Medicine was the Roswell Park Cancer Institute named after?
With a population of 768,868 in 2012, Strasbourg's metropolitan area is the ninth largest in France and home to 13% of the ACAL region's inhabitants	What is the population of Strasbourg in 2012?
Strasbourg's historic city centre, the Grande Île , was classified a World Heritage site by UNESCO in 1988, the first time such an honour was placed on an entire city centre	What year was Grande Ile classified as a World Heritage site?
This border is formed by the River Rhine, which also forms the eastern border of the modern city, facing across the river to the German town Kehl	What river is on the border of France and Germany?
The Romans under Nero Claudius Drusus established a military outpost belonging to the Germania Superior Roman province at Strasbourg's current location, and named it Argentoratum	What was Strasbourg called in 12 BC?
Many Roman artifacts have also been found along the current Route des Romains, the road that led to Argentoratum, in the suburb of Kœnigshoffen	What has been found along the current Route des Romains? 
The Oaths of Strasbourg is considered as marking the birth of the two countries of France and Germany with the division of the Carolingian Empire	What Empire split to create France and Germany?
A revolution in 1332 resulted in a broad-based city government with participation of the guilds, and Strasbourg declared itself a free republic	In what year did Strasbourg declare itself a free republic? 
In the 1520s during the Protestant Reformation, the city, under the political guidance of Jacob Sturm von Sturmeck and the spiritual guidance of Martin Bucer embraced the religious teachings of Martin Luther	Who was the political guide during the Protestant Reformation? 
Indeed, the bridge over the Rhine at Strasbourg had been used repeatedly by Imperial forces, and three times during the Franco-Dutch War Strasbourg had served as a gateway for Imperial invasions into Alsace	How many times was the Rhines bridge used during the Franco-Dutch War?
This annexation was one of the direct causes of the brief and bloody War of the Reunions whose outcome left the French in possession	What was one of the causes of the War of the Reunions? 
Strasbourg's status as a free city was revoked by the French Revolution	What revoked Strasbourg's status as a free city? 
During the Franco-Prussian War and the Siege of Strasbourg, the city was heavily bombarded by the Prussian army	Who bombarded the city of Strasbourg? 
In 1871, after the end of the war, the city was annexed to the newly established German Empire as part of the Reichsland Elsass-Lothringen under the terms of the Treaty of Frankfurt	In what year was the city annexed to the German Empire?
A belt of massive fortifications was established around the city, most of which still stands today, renamed after French generals and generally classified as Monuments historiques; most notably Fort Roon and Fort Podbielski in Mundolsheim, Fort von Moltke in Reichstett, Fort Bismarck in Wolfisheim, Fort Kronprinz in Niederhausbergen, Fort Kronprinz von Sachsen in Holtzheim and Fort Großherzog von Baden in Oberhausbergen	What was established around the city? 
Following the defeat of the German empire in World War I and the abdication of the German Emperor, some revolutionary insurgents declared Alsace-Lorraine as an independent Republic, without preliminary referendum or vote	In what war was the German Empire defeated? 
In 1919, following the Treaty of Versailles, the city was restituted to France in accordance with U	What year was it restituted to France? 
Between the German invasion of Poland on 1 September 1939 and the Anglo-French declaration of War against the German Reich on 3 September 1939, the entire city was evacuated, like other border towns as well	Who invaded Poland on 1 September 1939? 
After the ceasefire following the Fall of France in June 1940, Alsace was annexed to Germany and a rigorous policy of Germanisation was imposed upon it by the Gauleiter Robert Heinrich Wagner	In what year was the Fall of France?
In September 1940 the first Alsatian resistance movement led by Marcel Weinum called La main noire was created	Who led the first Alsatian resistance movement? 
Many people from Strasbourg were incorporated in the German Army against their will, and were sent to the eastern front, those young men and women were called Malgré-nous	What were the men and women sent to the eastern front against their will called? 
In 1949, the city was chosen to be the seat of the Council of Europe with its European Court of Human Rights and European Pharmacopoeia	What council was the city given a seat for in 1949? 
In addition to the cathedral, Strasbourg houses several other medieval churches that have survived the many wars and destructions that have plagued the city: the Romanesque Église Saint-Étienne, partly destroyed in 1944 by Allied bombing raids, the part Romanesque, part Gothic, very large Église Saint-Thomas with its Silbermann organ on which Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart and Albert Schweitzer played, the Gothic Église protestante Saint-Pierre-le-Jeune with its crypt dating back to the seventh century and its cloister partly from the eleventh century, the Gothic Église Saint-Guillaume with its fine early-Renaissance stained glass and furniture, the Gothic Église Saint-Jean, the part Gothic, part Art Nouveau Église Sainte-Madeleine, etc	What was partly destroyed by Allied bombings in 1944? 
palaces), among which the Palais Rohan is the most spectacular	How many museums does the Palais Rohan hold? 
Strasbourg also offers high-class eclecticist buildings in its very extended German district, the Neustadt, being the main memory of Wilhelmian architecture since most of the major cities in Germany proper suffered intensive damage during World War II	What kind of high class building does Strasbourg offer? 
As for modern and contemporary architecture, Strasbourg possesses some fine Art Nouveau buildings , good examples of post-World War II functional architecture and, in the very extended Quartier Européen, some spectacular administrative buildings of sometimes utterly large size, among which the European Court of Human Rights building by Richard Rogers is arguably the finest	What is the fine Art Nouveau villa called? 
Strasbourg features a number of prominent parks, of which several are of cultural and historical interest: the Parc de l'Orangerie, laid out as a French garden by André le Nôtre and remodeled as an English garden on behalf of Joséphine de Beauharnais, now displaying noteworthy French gardens, a neo-classical castle and a small zoo; the Parc de la Citadelle, built around impressive remains of the 17th-century fortress erected close to the Rhine by Vauban; the Parc de Pourtalès, laid out in English style around a baroque castle that now houses a small three-star hotel, and featuring an open-air museum of international contemporary sculpture	Who designed the Parc de l'Orangerie? 
Old master paintings from the Germanic Rhenish territories and until 1681 are displayed in the Musée de l'Œuvre Notre-Dame, old master paintings from all the rest of Europe and until 1871 as well as old master paintings from the Germanic Rhenish territories between 1681 and 1871 are displayed in the Musée des Beaux-Arts	Where are old master paintings from the Germanic Rhenish territories until 1681 held? 
Strasbourg, well known as centre of humanism, has a long history of excellence in higher-education, at the crossroads of French and German intellectual traditions	What is Strasbourg known as?
The Bibliothèque nationale et universitaire is, with its collection of more than 3,000,000 titles, the second largest library in France after the Bibliothèque nationale de France	What is the second largest library in France? 
As one of the earliest centers of book-printing in Europe , Strasbourg for a long time held a large number of incunabula—documents printed before 1500—in her library as one of her most precious heritages	What are incunabula's? 
City transportation in Strasbourg includes the futurist-looking Strasbourg tramway that opened in 1994 and is operated by the regional transit company Compagnie des Transports Strasbourgeois , consisting of 6 lines with a total length of 55	What year did the Strasbourg tramway open? 
6	How many lines does the Strasbourg tramway have?
In 1682 the Canal de la Bruche was added to the river navigations, initially to provide transport for sandstone from quarries in the Vosges for use in the fortification of the city	What year was the Canal de la Bruche added? 
The tram system that now criss-crosses the historic city centre complements walking and biking in it	What system also complements walking and biking? 
At present the A35 autoroute, which parallels the Rhine between Karlsruhe and Basel, and the A4 autoroute, which links Paris with Strasbourg, penetrate close to the centre of the city	What route parallels the Rhine? 
Oklahoma i/ˌoʊkləˈhoʊmə/ , Pawnee: Uukuhuúwa, Cayuga: Gahnawiyoˀgeh) is a state located in the South Central United States	What is the Cherokee name for Oklahoma?
The name Oklahoma comes from the Choctaw phrase okla humma, literally meaning red people	What language does the name Oklahoma come from?
Oklahoma is the 20th largest state in the United States, covering an area of 69,898 square miles , with 68,667 square miles of land and 1,281 square miles of water	Where does Oklahoma rank by land area?
The border between Texas and New Mexico was set first as a result of a survey by Spain in 1819	When was the border between TX and NM first determined?
Oklahoma is between the Great Plains and the Ozark Plateau in the Gulf of Mexico watershed, generally sloping from the high plains of its western boundary to the low wetlands of its southeastern boundary	What plateau is Oklahoma near?
Oklahoma has four primary mountain ranges: the Ouachita Mountains, the Arbuckle Mountains, the Wichita Mountains, and the Ozark Mountains	How many major mountain ranges are in Oklahoma?
The semi-arid high plains in the state's northwestern corner harbor few natural forests; the region has a rolling to flat landscape with intermittent canyons and mesa ranges like the Glass Mountains	What is an example of a mesa range?
Forests cover 24 percent of Oklahoma and prairie grasslands composed of shortgrass, mixed-grass, and tallgrass prairie, harbor expansive ecosystems in the state's central and western portions, although cropland has largely replaced native grasses	How much of Oklahoma is covered in forests?
The state holds populations of white-tailed deer, mule deer, antelope, coyotes, mountain lions, bobcats, elk, and birds such as quail, doves, cardinals, bald eagles, red-tailed hawks, and pheasants	What types of birds does Oklahoma have a lot of?
With 39,000 acres , the Tallgrass Prairie Preserve in north-central Oklahoma is the largest protected area of tallgrass prairie in the world and is part of an ecosystem that encompasses only 10 percent of its former land area, once covering 14 states	How large is the Tallgrass Prairie Preserve?
Oklahoma is located in a humid subtropical region	What is Oklahoma's main climate region?
As an example, on November 11, 1911, the temperature at Oklahoma City reached 83 °F in the afternoon , then an Arctic cold front of unprecedented intensity slammed across the state, causing the temperature to crash 66 degrees, down to 17 °F at midnight ; thus, both the record high and record low for November 11 were set on the same date	What is Oklahoma's record high temperature for Nov 11?
The humid subtropical climate of central, southern and eastern Oklahoma is influenced heavily by southerly winds bringing moisture from the Gulf of Mexico	What parts of Oklahoma are in a humid subtropical climate?
Over almost all of Oklahoma, winter is the driest season	Which season is the most dry in Oklahoma?
All of the state frequently experiences temperatures above 100 °F or below 0 °F , though below-zero temperatures are rare in south-central and southeastern Oklahoma	What parts of Oklahoma rarely see below-zero temperatures?
Ancestors of the Wichita and Caddo lived in what is now Oklahoma	Ancestors of which tribes lived in Oklahoma?
"Tulsa eventually became known as the ""Oil Capital of the World"" for most of the 20th century and oil investments fueled much of the state's early economy"	"What was the ""Oil Capital of the World""?"
During the 1930s, parts of the state began suffering the consequences of poor farming practices, extended drought and high winds	When did the Dust Bowl begin?
The Oklahoma City bombing of April 19, 1995, in which Timothy McVeigh and Terry Nichols detonated an explosive outside of the Alfred P	When was the Oklahoma City Bombing?
The English language has been official in the state of Oklahoma since 2010	When did Oklahoma declare an official language?
German is the fourth most commonly used language, with 13,444 speakers representing about 0	What is Oklahoma's fourth most popular language?
"Oklahoma is part of a geographical region characterized by conservative and Evangelical Christianity known as the ""Bible Belt"""	What is the conservative Evangelical Christian region called?
The state ranks third in the nation for production of natural gas, is the 27th-most agriculturally productive state, and also ranks 5th in production of wheat	How does Oklahoma rank among US states for producing natural gas?
Oklahoma is the nation's third-largest producer of natural gas, fifth-largest producer of crude oil, and has the second-greatest number of active drilling rigs, and ranks fifth in crude oil reserves	What is Oklahoma's rank among states producing crude oil?
According to Forbes magazine, Oklahoma City-based Devon Energy Corporation, Chesapeake Energy Corporation, and SandRidge Energy Corporation are the largest private oil-related companies in the nation, and all of Oklahoma's Fortune 500 companies are energy-related	Which largest private oil companies are based in Oklahoma City?
The state has a rich history in ballet with five Native American ballerinas attaining worldwide fame	How many famous Native American ballerinas came from Oklahoma?
"In Sand Springs, an outdoor amphitheater called ""Discoveryland"	Where is 'Discoveryland!'?
Prominent theatre companies in Oklahoma include, in the capital city, Oklahoma City Theatre Company, Carpenter Square Theatre, Oklahoma Shakespeare in the Park, and CityRep	What major theater groups are in Oklahoma City?
Oklahoma is in the nation's middle percentile in per capita spending on the arts, ranking 17th, and contains more than 300 museums	How many museums are in Oklahoma?
The Egyptian art collection at the Mabee-Gerrer Museum of Art in Shawnee is considered to be the finest Egyptian collection between Chicago and Los Angeles	Where does Oklahoma have a fine Egyptian art collection?
Oklahoma's centennial celebration was named the top event in the United States for 2007 by the American Bus Association, and consisted of multiple celebrations saving with the 100th anniversary of statehood on November 16, 2007	When was Oklahoma's centennial year?
During a 10-day run in Oklahoma City, the State Fair of Oklahoma attracts roughly one million people along with the annual Festival of the Arts	How long is the State Fair of Oklahoma?
Norman is also host to the Medieval Fair of Norman, which has been held annually since 1976 and was Oklahoma's first medieval fair	When did the Medieval Fair of Norman begin?
With an educational system made up of public school districts and independent private institutions, Oklahoma had 638,817 students enrolled in 1,845 public primary, secondary, and vocational schools in 533 school districts as of 2008	How many students were in Oklahoma's public schools in 2008?
The state is among the best in pre-kindergarten education, and the National Institute for Early Education Research rated it first in the United States with regard to standards, quality, and access to pre-kindergarten education in 2004, calling it a model for early childhood schooling	Who said Oklahoma's pre-K program is the best in the US?
Oklahoma holds eleven public regional universities, including Northeastern State University, the second-oldest institution of higher education west of the Mississippi River, also containing the only College of Optometry in Oklahoma and the largest enrollment of Native American students in the nation by percentage and amount	How many public universities does Oklahoma have?
In the 2007–2008 school year, there were 181,973 undergraduate students, 20,014 graduate students, and 4,395 first-professional degree students enrolled in Oklahoma colleges	How many undergrad students were in Oklahoma in 2007?
The Cherokee Nation instigated a 10-year language preservation plan that involved growing new fluent speakers of the Cherokee language from childhood on up through school immersion programs as well as a collaborative community effort to continue to use the language at home	Which Native American group is involved in a language preservation project?
The Oklahoma City Thunder of the National Basketball Association is the state's only major league sports franchise	What is the only major league sports team in Oklahoma?
The NBA's New Orleans Hornets became the first major league sports franchise based in Oklahoma when the team was forced to relocate to Oklahoma City's Ford Center, now known as Chesapeake Energy Arena, for two seasons following Hurricane Katrina in 2005	Which NBA team temporarily relocated to Oklahoma?
The state has four schools that compete at the highest level of college sports, NCAA Division I	How many NCAA Division I colleges does Oklahoma have?
Regular LPGA tournaments are held at Cedar Ridge Country Club in Tulsa, and major championships for the PGA or LPGA have been played at Southern Hills Country Club in Tulsa, Oak Tree Country Club in Oklahoma City, and Cedar Ridge Country Club in Tulsa	What kind of tournaments does Cedar Ridge Country Club host?
The state has two primary newspapers	How many major newspapers does Oklahoma have?
More than 12,000 miles of roads make up the state's major highway skeleton, including state-operated highways, ten turnpikes or major toll roads, and the longest drivable stretch of Route 66 in the nation	How many miles of highways are in Oklahoma?
Oklahoma's largest commercial airport is Will Rogers World Airport in Oklahoma City, averaging a yearly passenger count of more than 3	What is the largest commercial airport in Oklahoma?
Two inland ports on rivers serve Oklahoma: the Port of Muskogee and the Tulsa Port of Catoosa	How many ports does Oklahoma have?
Oklahoma's judicial branch consists of the Oklahoma Supreme Court, the Oklahoma Court of Criminal Appeals, and 77 District Courts that each serves one county	How many district courts does Oklahoma have?
The executive branch consists of the Governor, their staff, and other elected officials	Who is in the executive branch?
The state is divided into 77 counties that govern locally, each headed by a three-member council of elected commissioners, a tax assessor, clerk, court clerk, treasurer, and sheriff	How many county commissioners does each Oklahoma county have?
Thirty-nine Native American tribal governments are based in Oklahoma, each holding limited powers within designated areas	How many tribal governments are in Oklahoma?
After the 1948 election, the state turned firmly Republican	What political party rose to power in Oklahoma in 1948?
House of Representatives was reduced from six to five representatives, each serving one congressional district	How many US House reps did Oklahoma have before the 2000 census?
Oklahoma had 598 incorporated places in 2010, including four cities over 100,000 in population and 43 over 10,000	How many incorporated cities are in Oklahoma?
In descending order of population, Oklahoma's largest cities in 2010 were: Oklahoma City (579,999, +14	What is Oklahoma's largest city?
"The House passed HCR 1024, which will change the state motto from ""Labor Omnia Vincit"" to ""Oklahoma-In God We Trust"	What state House bill would change Oklahoma's motto to 'Oklahoma - In God We Trust'?
The history of India includes the prehistoric settlements and societies in the Indian subcontinent; the blending of the Indus Valley Civilization and Indo-Aryan culture into the Vedic Civilization; the development of Hinduism as a synthesis of various Indian cultures and traditions; the rise of the Śramaṇa movement; the decline of Śrauta sacrifices and the birth of the initiatory traditions of Jainism, Buddhism, Shaivism, Vaishnavism and Shaktism; the onset of a succession of powerful dynasties and empires for more than two millennia throughout various geographic areas of the subcontinent, including the growth of Muslim dynasties during the Medieval period intertwined with Hindu powers; the advent of European traders resulting in the establishment of the British rule; and the subsequent independence movement that led to the Partition of India and the creation of the Republic of India	In what geographic area was the country of India established?
Evidence of Anatomically modern humans in the Indian subcontinent is recorded as long as 75,000 years ago, or with earlier hominids including Homo erectus from about 500,000 years ago	For how long have modern humans lived on the Indian subcontinent?
Most of the subcontinent was conquered by the Maurya Empire during the 4th and 3rd centuries BCE	What empire conquered most of the subcontinent in the 3rd and 4th centuries BC?
The most significant event between the 7th and 11th century was the Tripartite struggle centered on Kannauj that lasted for more than two centuries between the Pala Empire, Rashtrakuta Empire, and Gurjara Pratihara Empire	Between what centuries was the Tripartite struggle focused on Kannauj?
Muslim rule started in parts of north India in the 13th century when the Delhi Sultanate was founded in 1206 CE by the Central Asian Turks	What group founded the Delhi Sultanate in the 13th century?
From the late 18th century to the mid-19th century, large areas of India were annexed by the British East India Company of British Empire	What company annexed large areas of India in the 18th and 19th centuries?
"Romila Thapar notes that the division into Hindu-Muslim-British periods of Indian history gives too much weight to ""ruling dynasties and foreign invasions"", neglecting the social-economic history which often showed a strong continuity"	Who remarked Indian history is too devoted to the ranking of dynasties and invasions?
Isolated remains of Homo erectus in Hathnora in the Narmada Valley in central India indicate that India might have been inhabited since at least the Middle Pleistocene era, somewhere between 500,000 and 200,000 years ago	By what era was India inhabited by humans of some form?
The Mesolithic period in the Indian subcontinent was followed by the Neolithic period, when more extensive settlement of the subcontinent occurred after the end of the last Ice Age approximately 12,000 years ago	What geologic period came after the Mesolithic period in India?
The Mature Indus civilisation flourished from about 2600 to 1900 BCE, marking the beginning of urban civilisation on the subcontinent	When did the Mature Indus Civilization thrive? 
The Vedic period is named after the Indo-Aryan culture of north-west India, although other parts of India had a distinct cultural identity during this period	For what culture is the Vedic period named?
At the end of the Rigvedic period, the Aryan society began to expand from the northwestern region of the Indian subcontinent, into the western Ganges plain	When did the Aryan culture begin its expansion?
The Kuru kingdom was the first state-level society of the Vedic period, corresponding to the beginning of the Iron Age in northwestern India, around 1200 – 800 BCE, as well as with the composition of the Atharvaveda 	What was the first state size society in the Vedic period?
In addition to the Vedas, the principal texts of Hinduism, the core themes of the Sanskrit epics Ramayana and Mahabharata are said to have their ultimate origins during this period	What were the principle texts of Hinduism?
During the time between 800 and 200 BCE the Shramana-movement formed, from which originated Jainism and Buddhism	What philosophical movement appeared during 800-200 BCE?
In the later Vedic Age, a number of small kingdoms or city states had covered the subcontinent, many mentioned in Vedic, early Buddhist and Jaina literature as far back as 500 BCE	By what age had many small states covered the subcontinent?
"Early ""republics"" such as the Vajji confederation centered in the city of Vaishali, existed as early as the 6th century BCE and persisted in some areas until the 4th century CE"	Where was the Vajji confederation located?
The 7th and 6th centuries BC witnessed the composition of the earliest Upanishads	When were the earliest Upanishads composed?
Increasing urbanisation of India in 7th and 6th centuries BCE led to the rise of new ascetic or shramana movements which challenged the orthodoxy of rituals	What did the shramana movements challenge?
Magadha formed one of the sixteen Mahā-Janapadas or kingdoms in ancient India	Of what was Magadha one of sixteen?
The earliest reference to the Magadha people occurs in the Atharva-Veda where they are found listed along with the Angas, Gandharis, and Mujavats	Where is the earliest mention of Magadha people?
In 530 BC Cyrus the Great, King of the Persian Achaemenid Empire crossed the Hindu-Kush mountains to seek tribute from the tribes of Kamboja, Gandhara and the trans-India region 	What Persian king wanted tribute from the tribes of northern India?
By 326 BC, Alexander the Great had conquered Asia Minor and the Achaemenid Empire and had reached the northwest frontiers of the Indian subcontinent	When did Alexander the Great reach India?
The Maurya Empire was the first empire to unify India into one state, and was the largest on the Indian subcontinent	What was the first empire to unify India?
The Arthashastra and the Edicts of Ashoka are the primary written records of the Mauryan times	What are the basic written records of the Mauryans?
During the Sangam period Tamil literateure flourished from the 3rd century BCE to the 4th century CE	During what period did Tamil literature thrive?
3	How many Tamil dynasties ruled during the Sangam period?
The Śātavāhana Empire was a royal Indian dynasty based from Amaravati in Andhra Pradesh as well as Junnar and Prathisthan in Maharashtra	What empire covered most of India from 230 BCE?
The Shunga Empire or Shunga Empire was an ancient Indian dynasty from Magadha that controlled vast areas of the Indian subcontinent from around 187 to 78 BCE	What was the time span of the Shunga Empire?
During the reign of Khārabēḷa, the Chedi dynasty of Kaḷinga ascended to eminence and restored the lost power and glory of Kaḷinga, which had been subdued since the devastating war with Ashoka	What Kalingan ruler brought the Chedi dynasty back into power?
The Kushan Empire expanded out of what is now Afghanistan into the northwest of the subcontinent under the leadership of their first emperor, Kujula Kadphises, about the middle of the 1st century CE	From what area did the Kushan Empire come?
Classical India refers to the period when much of the Indian subcontinent was reunited under the Gupta Empire (c	By what is India under the Gupta Empire referered?
The Gupta period marked a watershed of Indian culture: the Guptas performed Vedic sacrifices to legitimize their rule, but they also patronized Buddhism, which continued to provide an alternative to Brahmanical orthodoxy	What did the Guptas promote in their reigns?
Kadamba was an ancient royal dynasty of Karnataka, India that ruled northern Karnataka and the Konkan from Banavasi in present-day Uttara Kannada district	During what time did Kadamba rule northern Karnataka?
The Hephthalites , also known as the White Huns, were a nomadic confederation in Central Asia during the late antiquity period	What type of trib were the Hephthalites?
After the downfall of the prior Gupta Empire in the middle of the 6th century, North India reverted to small republics and small monarchical states ruled by Gupta rulers	In which century did the Gupta Empire fall?
From the fifth century to the thirteenth, Śrauta sacrifices declined, and initiatory traditions of Buddhism, Jainism or more commonly Shaivism, Vaishnavism and Shaktism expanded in royal courts	What declined from the 5th to the 13th centuries
Although Buddhism did not disappear from India for several centuries after the eighth, royal proclivities for the cults of Vishnu and Shiva weakened Buddhism's position within the sociopolitical context and helped make possible its decline	What cults weakened Buddhism in India?
From the 8th to the 10th century, three dynasties contested for control of northern India: the Gurjara Pratiharas of Malwa, the Palas of Bengal, and the Rashtrakutas of the Deccan	How many dynasties fought for control from the 8th to the 10th century?
The Chalukya Empire ) was an Indian royal dynasty that ruled large parts of southern and central India between the 6th and the 12th centuries	When did the Chalukya Empire rule?
Founded by Dantidurga around 753, the Rashtrakuta Empire ruled from its capital at Manyakheta for almost two centuries	When was the Rastrakuta Empire started?
The Pala Empire flourished during the Classical period of India, and may be dated during 750–1174 CE	During what span of time did the Pala Empire thrive?
and established the greatest empire South India had seen	What area did the Cholas unite in the 9th century?
The Western Chalukya Empire ruled most of the western Deccan, South India, between the 10th and 12th centuries	During waht centuries did the Western Chalukya rule?
The early Islamic literature indicates that the conquest of India was one of the very early ambitions of the Muslims, though it was recognized as a particularly difficult one	What group wanted to conquer India from earliest times?
"In 712, Arab Muslim general Muhammad bin Qasim conquered most of the Indus region in modern-day Pakistan for the Umayyad Empire, incorporating it as the ""As-Sindh"" province with its capital at Al-Mansurah, 72 km north of modern Hyderabad in Sindh, Pakistan"	In what year did Muslim general Muhammad bin Qasim take over most of the Indus area?
Several Islamic kingdoms under both foreign and, newly converted, Rajput rulers were established across the north western subcontinent over a period of a few centuries	In what areas of India were Islamic kingdoms formed over a period of centuries?
The Kabul Shahi dynasties ruled the Kabul Valley and Gandhara from the decline of the Kushan Empire in the 3rd century to the early 9th century	Until what century did the Kabul Shahi dynasties rule the Kabul Valley?
Jayapala saw a danger in the consolidation of the Ghaznavids and invaded their capital city of Ghazni both in the reign of Sebuktigin and in that of his son Mahmud, which initiated the Muslim Ghaznavid and Hindu Shahi struggles	In what id Jayapala see a danger to his dynasty?
In the year 1001, soon after Sultan Mahmud came to power and was occupied with the Qarakhanids north of the Hindu Kush, Jaipal attacked Ghazni once more and upon suffering yet another defeat by the powerful Ghaznavid forces, near present-day Peshawar	In what year was Jaipal again soundly defeated by the Muslims?
In evaluating the impact of Islam on the sub-continent, one must note that the northwestern sub-continent was a frequent target of tribes raiding from Central Asia	From where did raiders come to attack the agrarian Indians?
The subsequent Slave dynasty of Delhi managed to conquer large areas of northern India, while the Khilji dynasty conquered most of central India but were ultimately unsuccessful in conquering and uniting the subcontinent	What conquered large areas of northern India?
A Turco-Mongol conqueror in Central Asia, Timur , attacked the reigning Sultan Nasir-u Din Mehmud of the Tughlaq Dynasty in the north Indian city of Delhi	What Turko-Mongol attacked and defeated the Sultan of Tughlaq dynasty?
The Empire was established in 1336 by Harihara I and his brother Bukka Raya I of Sangama Dynasty	In what year was Sangama Dynasty formed?
For two and a half centuries from the mid 13th, the politics in the Northern India was dominated by the Delhi Sultanate and in the Southern India by the Vijayanagar Empire which originated as a political heir of the erstwhile Hoysala Empire and Pandyan Empire	From the mid 13th century, what dominated politics in northern India?
Ahom Kingdom was a kingdom and tribe which rose to prominence in present-day Assam early in the thirteenth century	What kingdom came to power in Assam?
In 1526, Babur, a Timurid descendant of Timur and Genghis Khan from Fergana Valley , swept across the Khyber Pass and established the Mughal Empire, which at its zenith covered modern day Afghanistan, Pakistan, India and Bangladesh	What empire did Babur found in northern India?
The Mughal dynasty ruled most of the Indian subcontinent by 1600	By what date did the Mughal dynasty rule most of India?
The Mughals suffered several blows due to invasions from Marathas and Afghans	What groups invaded and damaged the Mughals?
The Mughals were perhaps the richest single dynasty to have ever existed	What was the richest of all the dynasties?
The post-Mughal era was dominated by the rise of the Maratha suzerainty as other small regional states emerged, and also by the increasing activities of European powers	The rise of what dynasty followed the era of the Mughals?
By the early 18th century, the Maratha Kingdom had transformed itself into the Maratha Empire under the rule of the Peshwas 	By when had the Maratha kingdom become an empire?
The Punjabi kingdom, ruled by members of the Sikh religion, was a political entity that governed the region of modern-day Punjab	Followers what religion were the rulers of the Punjabi Kingdom?
However, most of them were bound to pay regular tribute to the Marathas	To what Kingdom did many small kingdoms pay tribute?
The next to arrive were the Dutch, with their main base in Ceylon	In what country was the trading base for the Dutch?
The Nawab of Bengal Siraj Ud Daulah, the de facto ruler of the Bengal province, opposed British attempts to use these permits	What ruler opposed the British use of permits and ended up at war?
As a result of the three Carnatic Wars, the British East India Company gained exclusive control over the entire Carnatic region of India	What whole region did the East India company get control over after the Carnatic Wars?
The Indian rebellion of 1857 was a large-scale rebellion by soldiers employed by the British East India in northern and central India against the Company's rule	What did the soldiers rebel against in the Indian Rebellion of 1857?
In the aftermath, all power was transferred from the East India Company to the British Crown, which began to administer most of India as a number of provinces	To what entity was all the power of the East India Company transferred?
After 1857, the colonial government strengthened and expanded its infrastructure via the court system, legal procedures, and statutes	What did the Colonial government expand by legal means?
"In 1905, Lord Curzon split the large province of Bengal into a largely Hindu western half and ""Eastern Bengal and Assam"", a largely Muslim eastern half"	What administer divided the province of Bengal in half?
The Bengali Renaissance refers to a social reform movement during the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries in the Bengal region of India during the period of British rule dominated by English educated Bengali Hindus	What was the social reform movement centered in Bengal in the 19th to early 20th century?
During this period, Bengal witnessed an intellectual awakening that is in some way similar to the Renaissance in Europe during the 16th century, although Europeans of that age were not confronted with the challenge and influence of alien colonialism	What did the Bengali Renaissance resemble?
During the British Raj, famines in India, often attributed to failed government policies, were some of the worst ever recorded, including the Great Famine of 1876–78 in which 6	What were said to have been caused by government policy failures?
"One of the most important events of the 19th century was the rise of Indian nationalism, leading Indians to seek first ""self-rule"" and later ""complete independence"""	What movement rose in the 19th century?
The first step toward Indian self-rule was the appointment of councillors to advise the British viceroy in 1861 and the first Indian was appointed in 1909	What appointments were the first step in Indian self-rule?
Bal Gangadhar Tilak, an Indian nationalist leader, declared Swaraj as the destiny of the nation	What Indian leader said that Swaraj was his birthright?
From 1920 leaders such as Mahatma Gandhi began highly popular mass movements to campaign against the British Raj using largely peaceful methods	What leader started a mass movement against British rule?
The Muslims had always been a minority within the subcontinent, and the prospect of an exclusively Hindu government made them wary of independence; they were as inclined to mistrust Hindu rule as they were to resist the foreign Raj, although Gandhi called for unity between the two groups in an astonishing display of leadership	What position did Muslims have in the Indian population?
Gamal Abdel Nasser Hussein ; 15 January 1918 – 28 September 1970) was the second President of Egypt, serving from 1956 until his death	What number president of Egypt was Nasser?
His funeral in Cairo drew five million mourners and an outpouring of grief across the Arab world	How many mourners attended Nasser's funeral?
His presidency also encouraged and coincided with an Egyptian cultural boom, and launched large industrial projects, including the Aswan Dam and Helwan City	Name two infrastructure projects Nasser spearheaded.
Nasser's father was a postal worker born in Beni Mur in Upper Egypt and raised in Alexandria, and his mother's family came from Mallawi, el-Minya	What was Nasser's father's occupation?
In 1928, Nasser went to Alexandria to live with his maternal grandfather and attend the city's Attarin elementary school	What elementary school did Nasser attend?
When his father was transferred to Cairo in 1933, Nasser joined him and attended al-Nahda al-Masria school	What school did Nasser attend in Cairo?
Nasser's involvement in political activity increased throughout his school years, such that he only attended 45 days of classes during his last year of secondary school	How many days did Nasser attend classes in his senior year?
Nasser spent most of his spare time reading, particularly in 1933 when he lived near the National Library of Egypt	What did Nasser do in his spare time?
Nasser was greatly influenced by Egyptian nationalism, as espoused by politician Mustafa Kamel, poet Ahmed Shawqi, and his anti-colonialist instructor at the Royal Military Academy, Aziz al-Masri, to whom Nasser expressed his gratitude in a 1961 newspaper interview	What political theory fascinated Nasser?
"From his readings, Nasser, who frequently spoke of ""dignity, glory, and freedom"" in his youth, became enchanted with the stories of national liberators and heroic conquerors; a military career became his chief priority"	What was Nasser's goal?
Convinced that he needed a wasta, or an influential intermediary to promote his application above the others, Nasser managed to secure a meeting with Under-Secretary of War Ibrahim Khairy Pasha, the person responsible for the academy's selection board, and requested his help	What's another term for influential intermediary?
In 1941, Nasser was posted to Khartoum, Sudan, which was part of Egypt at the time	In what year was Nasser posted to Sudan?
In May 1948, following the British withdrawal, King Farouk sent the Egyptian army into Palestine, with Nasser serving in the 6th Infantry Battalion	Where was the Egyptian army sent in 1948?
The Egyptian singer Umm Kulthum hosted a public celebration for the officers' return despite reservations from the royal government, which had been pressured by the British to prevent the reception	What Egyptian singer performed at the return of Nasser's brigade?
After the war, Nasser returned to his role as an instructor at the Royal Military Academy	What did Nasser do after the war ended?
Nasser's return to Egypt coincided with Husni al-Za'im's Syrian coup d'état	What people had a coup around the time Nasser returned to Egypt?
In the 1950 parliamentary elections, the Wafd Party of el-Nahhas gained a victory—mostly due to the absence of the Muslim Brotherhood, which boycotted the elections—and was perceived as a threat by the Free Officers as the Wafd had campaigned on demands similar to their own	What group boycotted the 1950 elections?
On 11 October 1951, the Wafd government abrogated the 1936 Anglo-Egyptian Treaty, which had given the British control over the Suez Canal until 1956	What treaty did the Wafd government abrogate?
Sirri Amer was close to King Farouk, and was nominated for the presidency of the Officer's Club—normally a ceremonial office—with the king's backing	Who was nominated to the presidency of the Officer's Club?
On 25 January 1952, a confrontation between British forces and police at Ismailia resulted in the deaths of 40 Egyptian policemen, provoking riots in Cairo the next day which left 76 people dead	In what year did riots cause the political situation in Egypt to rapidly deteriorate? 
The Free Officers' intention was not to install themselves in government, but to re-establish a parliamentary democracy	What type of government did the Free Officer's want to establish?
On 18 June 1953, the monarchy was abolished and the Republic of Egypt declared, with Naguib as its first president	Who was the first president of the Republic of Egypt?
Preceding the reform law, in August 1952, communist-led riots broke out at textile factories in Kafr el-Dawwar, leading to a clash with the army that left nine people dead	What group rioted at the textile factories?
In January 1953, Nasser overcame opposition from Naguib and banned all political parties, creating a one-party system under the Liberation Rally, a loosely structured movement whose chief task was to organize pro-RCC rallies and lectures, with Nasser its secretary-general	What was Nasser's first title in the Liberation Rally?
On 25 February 1954, Naguib announced his resignation after the RCC held an official meeting without his presence two days prior	Who resigned in 1954?
The RCC succeeded in provoking the beneficiaries of the revolution, namely the workers, peasants, and petty bourgeois, to oppose the decrees, with one million transport workers launching a strike and thousands of peasants entering Cairo in protest in late March	What group went on strike as a result of the turmoil?
The assassination attempt backfired, quickly playing into Nasser's hands	What event did Nasser exploit to his advantage?
Nasser's street following was still too small to sustain his plans for reform and to secure him in office	What was too small to keep Nasser in power?
"Nasser made secret contacts with Israel in 1954–55, but determined that peace with Israel would be impossible, considering it an ""expansionist state that viewed the Arabs with disdain"""	What country did Nasser make secret agreements with?
Simultaneous with Israel's February raid, the Baghdad Pact was formed between some regional allies of the UK	What agreement ran contrary to Nasser's efforts?
"Nasser mediated discussions between the pro-Western, pro-Soviet, and neutralist conference factions over the composition of the ""Final Communique"" addressing colonialism in Africa and Asia and the fostering of global peace amid the Cold War between the West and the Soviet Union"	What document was meant to resolve lingering issues of colonialism?
"Following Bandung, Nasser officially adopted the ""positive neutralism"" of Yugoslavian president Josip Broz Tito and Indian Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru as a principal theme of Egyptian foreign policy regarding the Cold War"	What political philosophy did Nasser adopt?
"In January 1956, the new Constitution of Egypt was drafted, entailing the establishment of a single-party system under the National Union , a movement Nasser described as the ""cadre through which we will realize our revolution"""	In what year did Egypt get a new constitution?
Nasser's nomination for the post and the new constitution were put to public referendum on 23 June and each was approved by an overwhelming majority	Who could approve or reject candidates for the National Assembly?
After the three-year transition period ended with Nasser's official assumption of power, his domestic and independent foreign policies increasingly collided with the regional interests of the UK and France	With what two nations did Nasser's foreign policy clash?
Nasser was informed of the British–American withdrawal via a news statement while aboard a plane returning to Cairo from Belgrade, and took great offense	How did Nasser react to the news the the US and UK had blocked construction of th Aswan Dam?
On 26 July 1956, Nasser gave a speech in Alexandria announcing the nationalization of the Suez Canal Company as a means to fund the Aswan Dam project in light of the British–American withdrawal	What did Nasser propose to do with funds from the nationalized Suez Canal?
The nationalization announcement was greeted very emotionally by the audience and, throughout the Arab world, thousands entered the streets shouting slogans of support	How did the Arab world react to news of the nationalization of the Suez Canal?
France and the UK, the largest shareholders in the Suez Canal Company, saw its nationalization as yet another hostile measure aimed at them by the Egyptian government	What nations were outraged by the nationalization scheme?
On 29 October 1956, Israeli forces crossed the Sinai Peninsula, overwhelmed Egyptian army posts, and quickly advanced to their objectives	In what year did battle over the Suez Canal commence?
Despite the commanded withdrawal of Egyptian troops, about 2,000 Egyptian soldiers were killed during engagement with Israeli forces, and some 5,000 Egyptian soldiers were captured by the Israeli Army	How many Egyptian soldiers died during the fighting?
Between 750 and 1,000 Egyptians were killed in the battle for Port Said	How many Egyptians died in the battle for Port Said?
Eisenhower administration condemned the tripartite invasion, and supported UN resolutions demanding withdrawal and a United Nations Emergency Force to be stationed in Sinai	What leader did Nasser applaud?
"The Cairo-based Voice of the Arabs radio station spread Nasser's ideas of united Arab action throughout the Arabic-speaking world and historian Eugene Rogan wrote, ""Nasser conquered the Arab world by radio"	What radio station furthered Nasser's agenda?
In January 1957, the US adopted the Eisenhower Doctrine and pledged to prevent the spread of communism and its perceived agents in the Middle East	What was the policy meant to contain communism in the middle east?
Relations between Nasser and King Hussein deteriorated in April when Hussein implicated Nasser in two coup attempts against him—although Nasser's involvement was never established—and dissolved al-Nabulsi's cabinet	What leader accused Nasser of trying to overthrow him?
By the end of 1957, Nasser nationalized all remaining British and French assets in Egypt, including the tobacco, cement, pharmaceutical, and phosphate industries	What nations' assets did Nasser nationalize in 1957?
As political instability grew in Syria, delegations from the country were sent to Nasser demanding immediate unification with Egypt	What country wanted to join with Egypt?
While Nasser was in Syria, King Saud planned to have him assassinated on his return flight to Cairo	Who tried to assassinate Nasser?
A day after announcing the attempt on his life, Nasser established a new provisional constitution proclaiming a 600-member National Assembly and the dissolution of all political parties	How many members were in the National Assembly?
In Lebanon, clashes between pro-Nasser factions and supporters of staunch Nasser opponent, then-President Camille Chamoun, culminated in civil strife by May	Who was Nasser's opponent in Lebanon?
On 14 July, Iraqi army officers Abdel Karim Qasim and Abdel Salam Aref overthrew the Iraqi monarchy and, the next day, Iraqi prime minister and Nasser's chief Arab antagonist, Nuri al-Said, was killed	What two men overthrew the Iraqi monarchy?
He put Syria under Sarraj, who effectively reduced the province to a police state by imprisoning and exiling landholders who objected to the introduction of Egyptian agricultural reform in Syria, as well as communists	Who did Nasser appoint to run Syria?
Relations between Nasser and Qasim grew increasingly bitter on 9 March, after Qasim's forces suppressed a rebellion in Mosul, launched a day earlier by a pro-Nasser Iraqi RCC officer backed by UAR authorities	What Iraqi leader clashed with Nasser?
Opposition to the union mounted among some of Syria's key elements, namely the socioeconomic, political, and military elites	What Syrian social group opposed the UAR?
On 28 September 1961, secessionist army units launched a coup in Damascus, declaring Syria's secession from the UAR	What Syrian anti-Nasser group lauched a coup?
Nasser's regional position changed unexpectedly when Yemeni officers led by Nasser supporter Abdullah al-Sallal overthrew Imam Badr of North Yemen on 27 September 1962	What country experienced a coup in 1962?
On 8 February 1963, a military coup in Iraq led by a Ba'athist–Nasserist alliance toppled Qasim, who was subsequently shot dead	What groups completed a coup in Iraq?
In January 1964, Nasser called for an Arab League summit in Cairo to establish a unified Arab response against Israel's plans to divert the Jordan River's waters for economic purposes, which Syria and Jordan deemed an act of war	What river did the Israelis want to divert?
After years of foreign policy coordination and developing ties, Nasser, President Sukarno of Indonesia, President Tito of Yugoslavia, and Prime Minister Nehru of India founded the Non-Aligned Movement in 1961	In what year was the Non-Aligned Movment formed?
Nasser played a significant part in the strengthening of African solidarity in the late 1950s and early 1960s, although his continental leadership role had increasingly passed to Algeria since 1962	What continent did Nasser help to attain political stability?
In 1961, Nasser sought to firmly establish Egypt as the leader of the Arab world and to promote a second revolution in Egypt with the purpose of merging Islamic and socialist thinking	What country did Nasser want to be the leader of the Arab world?
In late 1961, Nasser established the Presidential Council and decreed it the authority to approve all senior military appointments, instead of leaving this responsibility solely to Amer	What military entity did Nasser create in 1961?
In early 1962 Nasser again attempted to wrest control of the military command from Amer	From whom did Nasser want to seize control of Egypt's military?
In October 1961, Nasser embarked on a major nationalization program for Egypt, believing the total adoption of socialism was the answer to his country's problems and would have prevented Syria's secession	What political ideology did Nasser wholeheartedly back in 1961?
As a result of the 1962 measures, government ownership of Egyptian business reached 51 percent, and the National Union was renamed the Arab Socialist Union 	What percentage of business did the Egyptian government own in 1962?
He was the only candidate for the position, with virtually all of his political opponents forbidden by law from running for office, and his fellow party members reduced to mere followers	What was Nasser's political opposition like in the 1965 election?
"In mid May 1967, the Soviet Union issued warnings to Nasser of an impending Israeli attack on Syria, although Chief of Staff Mohamed Fawzi considered the warnings to be ""baseless"""	What country warned Nasser that Israel wanted to attack Syria?
On 21 May, Amer asked Nasser to order the Straits of Tiran blockaded, a move Nasser believed Israel would use as a casus belli	What thoroughfare did Amir want Nasser to block?
According to Sadat, it was only when the Israelis cut off the Egyptian garrison at Sharm el-Sheikh that Nasser became aware of the situation's gravity	What defeat opened Nasser's eyes to the desperation of Egypt's situation?
During the first four days of the war, the general population of the Arab world believed Arab radio station fabrications of imminent Arab victory	What propaganda were Arab media broadcasting at the beginning of the war?
On 11 July, Nasser replaced Amer with Mohamed Fawzi as general commander, over the protestations of Amer's loyalists in the military, 600 of whom marched on army headquarters and demanded Amer's reinstatement	Who did Nasser appoint as the new head of Egypt's armed forces?
At the 29 August Arab League summit in Khartoum, Nasser's usual commanding position had receded as the attending heads of state expected Saudi King Faisal to lead	Where was the Arab League summit held?
Nasser appointed himself the additional roles of prime minister and supreme commander of the armed forces on 19 June 1967	What new positions did Nasser give himself ?
On 30 March, Nasser proclaimed a manifesto stipulating the restoration of civil liberties, greater parliamentary independence from the executive, major structural changes to the ASU, and a campaign to rid the government of corrupt elements	What organization was to undergo a big overhaul?
Meanwhile, in January 1968, Nasser commenced the War of Attrition to reclaim territory captured by Israel, ordering attacks against Israeli positions east of the then-blockaded Suez Canal	What was the endeavor to reclaim territory from Israel called?
Nasser ceased all military activities and began a program to build a network of internal defenses, while receiving the financial backing of various Arab states	What did Nasser do to respond to Israeli attacks?
In June 1970, Nasser accepted the US-sponsored Rogers Plan, which called for an end to hostilities and an Israeli withdrawal from Egyptian territory, but it was rejected by Israel, the PLO, and most Arab states except Jordan	What was the American plan to end conflict with Israel?
As the summit closed on 28 September 1970, hours after escorting the last Arab leader to leave, Nasser suffered a heart attack	When did Nasser die?
Nasser's funeral procession through Cairo on 1 October was attended by at least five million mourners	How many people attended Nasser's funeral?
"Over a dozen people were killed in Beirut as a result of the chaos, and in Jerusalem, roughly 75,000 Arabs marched through the Old City chanting, ""Nasser will never die"	How many eople died in Breuit because of unrest caused by Nasser's death?
Nasser made Egypt fully independent of British influence, and the country became a major power in the developing world under his leadership	What did Nasser completely eliminate from Egypt?
The national economy grew significantly through agrarian reform, major modernization projects such as the Helwan steel works and the Aswan Dam, and nationalization schemes such as that of the Suez Canal	What reform, initiated by Nasser, caused the Egyptian economy to grow?
During Mubarak's presidency, Nasserist political parties began to emerge in Egypt, the first being the Arab Democratic Nasserist Party 	What type of political parties came about when Mubarek was president?
His availability to the public, despite assassination attempts against him, was unparalleled among his successors	What was Nasser known for in regard to ordinary citizens?
While Nasser was increasingly criticized by Egyptian intellectuals following the Six-Day War and his death in 1970, the general public was persistently sympathetic both during and after Nasser's life	Who was most critical of Nasser's rule?
Nasser's Egyptian detractors considered him a dictator who thwarted democratic progress, imprisoned thousands of dissidents, and led a repressive administration responsible for numerous human rights violations	Whad did Nasser's enemies call him?
Some of Nasser's liberal and Islamist critics in Egypt, including the founding members of the New Wafd Party and writer Jamal Badawi, dismissed Nasser's popular appeal with the Egyptian masses during his presidency as being the product of successful manipulation and demagoguery	What Egyptian party dismissed Nasser's popular appeal?
"American political scientist Mark Cooper asserted that Nasser's charisma and his direct relationship with the Egyptian people ""rendered intermediaries unnecessary"""	What did Nasser's political style render unnecessary?
Zakaria Mohieddin, who was Nasser's vice president, said that Nasser gradually changed during his reign	Who was Nasser's vice president?
The extent of Nasser's centrality in the region made it a priority for incoming Arab nationalist heads of state to seek good relations with Egypt, in order to gain popular legitimacy from their own citizens	What did other Arab leaders have to do to gain admiration of their populations?
Ahmed Ben Bella, Algeria's first president, was a staunch Nasserist	Who was Algeria's first president, a fervent Nasserist?
In 1963, Egyptian director Youssef Chahine produced the film El Nasser Salah El Dine , which intentionally drew parallels between Saladin, considered a hero in the Arab world, and Nasser and his pan-Arabist policies	What 1963 film compared Nasser to Saladin?
In 1944, Nasser married Tahia Kazem, the 22-year-old daughter of a wealthy Iranian father and an Egyptian mother, both of whom died when she was young	Who did Nasser marry in 1944?
Nasser had few personal vices other than chain smoking	What was Nasser's principle vice?
Pope Saint John XXIII born Angelo Giuseppe Roncalli, Italian pronunciation: ; 25 November 1881 – 3 June 1963) reigned as Pope from 28 October 1958 to his death in 1963 and was canonized on 27 April 2014	What was Pope Saint John XXIII's birth name?
Roncalli was elected pope on 28 October 1958 at age 76 after 11 ballots	How old was Roncalli when elected pope?
He died of stomach cancer on 3 June 1963, four and a half years after his election and two months after the completion of his final and famed encyclical, Pacem in terris	When did the pope die?
The Roman Catholic Church celebrates his feast day not on the date of his death, June 3, as is usual, nor even on the day of his papal inauguration but on 11 October, the day of the first session of the Second Vatican Council	When is his feast day celebrated?
In February 1925, the Cardinal Secretary of State Pietro Gasparri summoned him to the Vatican and informed him of Pope Pius XI's decision to appoint him as the Apostolic Visitor to Bulgaria 	When did Pietro Gasparri summon him to the Vatican?
On 30 November 1934, he was appointed Apostolic Delegate to Turkey and Greece and titular archbishop of Mesembria, Bulgaria	When was he appointed Apostolic Delegate to Turkey and Greece?
In February 1939, he received news from his sisters that his mother was dying	When did he hear that his mother was dying?
On 12 January 1953, he was appointed Patriarch of Venice and, accordingly, raised to the rank of Cardinal-Priest of Santa Prisca by Pope Pius XII	When was he appointed Patriarch of Venice?
His sister Ancilla would soon be diagnosed with stomach cancer in the early 1950s	When was his sister Ancilla diagnosed with stomach cancer?
Following the death of Pope Pius XII on 9 October 1958, Roncalli watched the live funeral on his last full day in Venice on 11 October	When did Pope Pius XII die?
Many had considered Giovanni Battista Montini, the Archbishop of Milan, a possible candidate, but, although he was the archbishop of one of the most ancient and prominent sees in Italy, he had not yet been made a cardinal	Who was the Archbishop of Milan?
Roncalli was summoned to the final ballot of the conclave at 4:00 pm	When was the final ballot of the conclave?
"Far from being a mere ""stopgap"" pope, to great excitement, John XXIII called for an ecumenical council fewer than ninety years after the First Vatican Council "	What did John XXIII call for?
John XXIII was an advocate for human rights which included the unborn and the elderly	John XXIII was an advocate for what?
Maintaining continuity with his predecessors, John XXIII continued the gradual reform of the Roman liturgy, and published changes that resulted in the 1962 Roman Missal, the last typical edition containing the Tridentine Mass established in 1570 by Pope Pius V at the request of the Council of Trent and whose continued use Pope Benedict XVI authorized in 2007, under the conditions indicated in his motu proprio Summorum Pontificum	John XXIII continued the gradual reform of what?
On 11 October 1962, the first session of the Second Vatican Council was held in the Vatican	Where was the first session of the Second Vatican Council held?
The first session ended in a solemn ceremony on 8 December 1962 with the next session scheduled to occur in 1963 from 12 May to 29 June – this was announced on 12 November 1962	A solemn ceremony ended the first session on what day?
Kennedy and Nikita Khrushchev during the Cuban Missile Crisis in October 1962	When was the Cuban Missile Crisis?
On 10 May 1963, John XXIII received the Balzan Prize in private at the Vatican but deflected achievements of himself to the five popes of his lifetime, Pope Leo XIII to Pius XII	John XXIII received what prize on 10 May 1963?
On 25 May 1963, the pope suffered another haemorrhage and required several blood transfusions, but the cancer had perforated the stomach wall and peritonitis soon set in	What did the pope suffer on 25 May 1963?
"""At 11 am Petrus Canisius Van Lierde as Papal Sacristan was at the bedside of the dying pope, ready to anoint him"	Who was at the dying pope's bedside?
John XXIII died of peritonitis caused by a perforated stomach at 19:49 local time on 3 June 1963 at the age of 81, ending a historic pontificate of four years and seven months	What did John XXIII die of?
On 3 December 1963, US President Lyndon B	When did President Johnson award him?
"He was known affectionately as ""Good Pope John"""	What was he also known as?
The 50th anniversary of his death was celebrated on 3 June 2013 by Pope Francis, who visited his tomb and prayed there, then addressing the gathered crowd and spoke about the late pope	When was the 50th anniversary of his death?
Time has long been a major subject of study in religion, philosophy, and science, but defining it in a manner applicable to all fields without circularity has consistently eluded scholars	Time has long been a major point of study in which fields?
One view is that time is part of the fundamental structure of the universe—a dimension independent of events, in which events occur in sequence	According to one of the main viewpoints of time, time is part of the fundamental structure of what?
Time is one of the seven fundamental physical quantities in both the International System of Units and International System of Quantities	Time is one of how many fundamental physical quantities?
Temporal measurement has occupied scientists and technologists, and was a prime motivation in navigation and astronomy	What has been a prime motivation in astronomy and navigation?
Temporal measurement, chronometry, takes two distinct period forms: the calendar, a mathematical tool for organizing intervals of time, and the clock, a physical mechanism that counts the passage of time	What is a mathematical tool used for organizing intervals of time?
Artifacts from the Paleolithic suggest that the moon was used to reckon time as early as 6,000 years ago	Artifacts from which era suggest that the moon was used to reckon time around 6,000 years ago?
The most precise timekeeping device of the ancient world was the water clock, or clepsydra, one of which was found in the tomb of Egyptian pharaoh Amenhotep I 	What was the most accurate clock-like device in the ancient world?
The hourglass uses the flow of sand to measure the flow of time	Which device uses the flow of sand to measure time?
The most accurate timekeeping devices are atomic clocks, which are accurate to seconds in many millions of years, and are used to calibrate other clocks and timekeeping instruments	Which timekeeping devices are the most accurate?
Greenwich Mean Time is an older standard, adopted starting with British railways in 1847	Which standard of time started with British Railways?
Two distinct viewpoints on time divide many prominent philosophers	How many main viewpoints divide many philosophers?
The Vedas, the earliest texts on Indian philosophy and Hindu philosophy dating back to the late 2nd millennium BC, describe ancient Hindu cosmology, in which the universe goes through repeated cycles of creation, destruction and rebirth, with each cycle lasting 4,320 million years	What are the earliest texts of Indian/Hindu philosophy?
""" He begins to define time by what it is not rather than what it is, an approach similar to that taken in other negative definitions"	By what does St. Augustine of Hippo begin to define time?
Immanuel Kant, in the Critique of Pure Reason, described time as an a priori intuition that allows us to comprehend sense experience	In what did Immanuel Kant describe time as a priori intuition that allows humankind to understand sense experience?
According to Martin Heidegger we do not exist inside time, we are time	Who suggested that humankind does not exist inside time, but is time?
The theory of special relativity finds a convenient formulation in Minkowski spacetime, a mathematical structure that combines three dimensions of space with a single dimension of time	Minkowski spacetime combines the three dimensions of space with what?
"In non-relativistic classical mechanics, Newton's concept of ""relative, apparent, and common time"" can be used in the formulation of a prescription for the synchronization of clocks"	What Newtonian concept can be used in the formulation of an idea for the synchronization of clocks?
Time has historically been closely related with space, the two together merging into spacetime in Einstein's special relativity and general relativity	Historically, time has been closely related with what?
On the other hand, the crew on board the spaceship also perceives the observer as slowed down and flattened along the spaceship's direction of travel, because both are moving at very nearly the speed of light relative to each other	How does the crew on board the spaceship perceive the stationary observer?
Einstein showed in his thought experiments that people travelling at different speeds, while agreeing on cause and effect, measure different time separations between events, and can even observe different chronological orderings between non-causally related events	Who showed, in his thought experiments, that people travelling at different speeds measured time differently?
Yet for the most part the laws of physics do not specify an arrow of time, and allow any process to proceed both forward and in reverse	What laws do not specify an arrow of time?
Stephen Hawking in particular has addressed a connection between time and the Big Bang	Stephen Hawking makes a connection between time and what?
While the Big Bang model is well established in cosmology, it is likely to be refined in the future	The Big Bang model is solidly established in what?
i	How much is known about the early states of the universe?
Time travel has been a plot device in fiction since the 19th century	How long has time travel been a topic in science fiction?
Another solution to the problem of causality-based temporal paradoxes is that such paradoxes cannot arise simply because they have not arisen	What is another solution to the problem of temporal paradoxes?
Psychoactive drugs can impair the judgment of time	What type of drugs can impair the judgement of time?
The use of time is an important issue in understanding human behavior, education, and travel behavior	The use of time is important in understanding what?
A sequence of events, or series of events, is a sequence of items, facts, events, actions, changes, or procedural steps, arranged in time order , often with causality relationships among the items	"What is another way of phrasing ""time order""?"
A sequence of events may also be used to help describe processes in science, technology, and medicine	What may a sequence of events be used to describe?
As of 2015 the President of the ECB is Mario Draghi, former governor of the Bank of Italy, former member of the World Bank, and former managing director of the Goldman Sachs international division 	What former managing director od Goldman Sachs international division is president of The European Central Bank?
The primary objective of the European Central Bank, as mandated in Article 2 of the Statute of the ECB, is to maintain price stability within the Eurozone	What is the main mission of the ECB?
The first President of the Bank was Wim Duisenberg, the former president of the Dutch central bank and the European Monetary Institute	Who was the first president of the ECB?
The Governing Council in October 1998 defined price stability as inflation of under 2%, “a year-on-year increase in the Harmonised Index of Consumer Prices for the euro area of below 2%” and added that price stability ”was to be maintained over the medium term”	What is price stability defined as?
An increase in the quantity of notes offered at auction allows an increase in liquidity in the economy	What happens when a lot of repo notes come due?
To qualify for participation in the auctions, banks must be able to offer proof of appropriate collateral in the form of loans to other entities	How does a bank make sure that they can participate in auctions?
The Executive Board is responsible for the implementation of monetary policy and the day-to-day running of the bank	Who is responsible for overseeing all monetary policy?
The Spanish had nominated Barcelona-born Antonio Sáinz de Vicuña, an ECB veteran who heads its legal department, as González-Páramo's replacement as early as January 2012 but alternatives from Luxembourg, Finland, and Slovenia were put forward and no decision made by May	Who did the Spanish want to take José Manuel González-Páramo's seat on the board?
The Supervisory Board meets twice a month to discuss, plan and carry out the ECB’s supervisory tasks	What does the Supervisory Board discuss at it's meetings?
Although the ECB is governed by European law directly and thus not by corporate law applying to private law companies, its set-up resembles that of a corporation in the sense that the ECB has shareholders and stock capital	What governs the ECB?
The internal working language of the ECB is generally English, and press conferences are usually held in English	What language does the ECB generally use?
The independence of the ECB is instrumental in maintaining price stability	WHat is the biggest factor in the ECB maintaining price stability?
From late 2009 a handful of mainly southern eurozone member states started being unable to repay their national Euro-denominated government debt or to finance the bail-out of troubled financial sectors under their national supervision without the assistance of third parties	When did the European debt Crisis begin?
 There has also been a reluctance of financially stable eurozone states like Germany to further circumvent the no-bailout clause in the EU contracts and to generally take on the burden of financing or guaranteeing the debts of financially unstable or defaulting eurozone countries	Which countries didn't want to go around the bail-out clause and have to shoulder the burden of backing the defaulters debts.
"Greece had the greatest need for reforms but also most problems to implement those, so the Greek exit, also called ""Grexit"", has been widely discussed"	What term was coined when Greece left the eurozone?
However, if the debt rescheduling causes losses on loans held by European banks, it weakens the private banking system, which then puts pressure on the central bank to come to the aid of those banks	What would cause the private banking system to weaken?
In contrast to the Fed, the ECB normally does not buy bonds outright	Who retains ownership of the collateral until the debt is paid?
ECB buying focused primarily on Spanish and Italian debt	What debt did the ECB focus on abtaining?
One is sterilisation, in which highly valued assets are sold at the same time that the weaker assets are purchased, which keeps the money supply neutral	How does sterilisation help to keep the money flow even?
The duration of the previous SMP was temporary, while the Outright Monetary Transactions programme has no ex-ante time or size limit	How does the ECB plan to increase the available credit for businesses?
Rescue operations involving sovereign debt have included temporarily moving bad or weak assets off the balance sheets of the weak member banks into the balance sheets of the European Central Bank	What can be shuffeled around during a soverign debt crisis to mitigate the damage?
" But the German government has resisted this proposal, and other analyses indicate that ""the sickness of the euro"" is due to the linkage between sovereign debt and failing national banking systems"	What is being caused by links between soverign debt and failing national banks?
The latter can be seen, for example, in the bank's intervention during the subprime mortgage crisis when it loaned billions of euros to banks to stabilise the financial system	What did the ECB do to help stabilise the financial system during the subprime mortgage crisis?
In central banking, the privileged status of the central bank is that it can make as much money as it deems needed	What is a perk of the central bank?
when gauging the solvency of financial institutions, to rely more than ever on standardised assessments of credit risk marketed by two non-European private agencies: Moody's and S&P	Which agencies have became the authority on assessing the risk of financial institutions?
The bank is based in Frankfurt, the largest financial centre in the Eurozone	Where is the European Central bank located?
The by far biggest amount of €325bn was tapped by banks in Greece, Ireland, Italy and Spain	After the loan program was announced, which countries borrowed the most?
The ECB's first supplementary longer-term refinancing operation with a six-month maturity was announced March 2008	What is an LTRO?
John's is the capital and largest city in Newfoundland and Labrador, Canada	In what country is St. John's located?
John's is one of the oldest settlements in North America, with year-round settlement beginning sometime after 1630 and seasonal habitation long before that	Around what year did settlement begin to occur in St. John's?
Sebastian Cabot declares in a handwritten Latin text in his original 1545 map, that the St	What was John Cabot's sons first name?
John's in 1527 he found Norman, Breton and Portuguese ships in the harbour	What year did John Rut visit St. John's?
In 1627, William Payne, called St	"Who referred St. John's as St. ""the principal prime and chief lot in all the whole country"" ? "
John's by the Dutch admiral Michiel de Ruyter in June 1665	Who briefly seized St. John's in 1665?
John's was the starting point for the first non-stop transatlantic aircraft flight, by Alcock and Brown in a modified Vickers Vimy IV bomber, in June 1919, departing from Lester's Field in St	Who flew the first non-stop transatlantic aircraft flight?
John's, and the province as a whole, was gravely affected in the 1990s by the collapse of the Northern cod fishery, which had been the driving force of the provincial economy for hundreds of years	When did the Northern cod fishery collapse?
John's is located along the coast of the Atlantic Ocean, on the northeast of the Avalon Peninsula in southeast Newfoundland	Near what body of water is St. John's located by?
John's has a humid continental climate , with lower seasonal variation than normal for the latitude, which is due to Gulf Stream moderation	How is the climate in St. John's?
John's experiences milder temperatures during the winter season in comparison to other Canadian cities, and has the mildest winter for any Canadian city outside of British Columbia	What Canadian city has the mildest winter temperature?
John's consisted mostly of the homes of fishermen, sheds, storage shacks, and wharves constructed out of wood	What are wharves in St. John's constructed out of?
Often compared to San Francisco due to the hilly terrain and steep maze of residential streets, housing in St	What US city is St. John's often compared to?
"To meet the need for more office space downtown without compromising the city's heritage, the city council amended heritage regulations, which originally restricted height to 15 metres in the area of land on Water Street between Bishop's Cove and Steer's Cove, to create the ""Commercial Central Retail – West Zone"""	What was amended to provide more office space in downtown?
As of the 2006 Census, there were 100,646 inhabitants in St	In what year where there 100,646 inhabitants in St. John's?
Predominantly Christian, the population of St	What is the largest religion in St. John's?
The civil service which is supported by the federal, provincial and municipal governments has been the key to the expansion of the city's labour force and to the stability of its economy, which supports a sizable retail, service and business sector	What is supported by the federal, provincial and municipal governments?
The economy has been growing quickly in recent years	What has been growing in the recent years?
The LSPU Hall is home to the Resource Centre for the Arts	Where is the Resource Centre for the Arts?
Pippy Park is an urban park located in the east end of the city; with over 3,400 acres of land, it is one of Canada's largest urban parks	Where is Pippy Park located in the city?
Bannerman Park is a Victorian-style park located near the downtown	What part of the city is Bannerman Park located by?
Signal Hill is a hill which overlooks the city of St	Where exactly is Cabot Tower located in St. John' ?
The Rock play their home games at Swilers Rugby Park, as did the Rugby Canada Super League champions for 2005 and 2006, the Newfoundland Rock	Where do The Rock play their home games at?
John's served as the capital city of the Colony of Newfoundland and the Dominion of Newfoundland before Newfoundland became Canada's tenth province in 1949	What was Canada's tenth province?
While nationally crime decreased by 4% in 2009, the total crime rate in St	By how much did crime in St. John's increase in 2009?
John's International Airport , located 10 minutes northwest of the downtown core	How far is St. John's International Airport from the downtown core?
"The divided highway, also known as ""Outer Ring Road"" in the city, runs just outside the main part of the city, with exits to Pitts Memorial Drive, Topsail Road, Team Gushue Highway, Thorburn Road, Allandale Road, Portugal Cove Road and Torbay Road, providing relatively easy access to neighbourhoods served by those streets"	Outer Ring Road is a another name for what?
Metrobus has a total of 19 routes, 53 buses and an annual ridership of 3,014,073	How many routes does the Metrobus have?
John's, including three private schools	How many private schools are in St. John's?
CBC has its Newfoundland and Labrador headquarters in the city and their television station CBNT-DT broadcasts from University Avenue	What is the name of CBC's television station in St. John's?
The city is home to 15 am and FM radio stations, two of which are French-language stations	How many radio station does the city have?
John von Neumann ; December 28, 1903 – February 8, 1957) was a Hungarian-American pure and applied mathematician, physicist, inventor, computer scientist, and polymath	What was the birth date of John Von Neumann?
He published 150 papers in his life; 60 in pure mathematics, 20 in physics, and 60 in applied mathematics	How many papers did Von Neumann publish?
Von Neumann's mathematical analysis of the structure of self-replication preceded the discovery of the structure of DNA	Von Neumann's study of what preceded the discovery of DNA?
After the war, he served on the General Advisory Committee of the United States Atomic Energy Commission, and later as one of its commissioners	Post World War II, in what role did Von Neumann work?
Von Neumann was born Neumann János Lajos , Hebrew name Yonah, in Budapest, Kingdom of Hungary, which was then part of the Austro-Hungarian Empire, to wealthy Jewish parents of the Haskalah	Where was Von Neumann born?
In 1913, his father was elevated to the nobility for his service to the Austro-Hungarian Empire by Emperor Franz Joseph	In what year was Von Neumann's father elevated to nobility?
Formal schooling did not start in Hungary until the age of ten	At what age did schooling begin in Hungary?
Von Neumann entered the Lutheran Fasori Evangelikus Gimnázium in 1911	What did Von Neumann enter in 1911?
At the age of 15, he began to study advanced calculus under the renowned analyst Gábor Szegő	At what age did Von Neumann begin to study advance calculus?
So it was decided that the best career path was to become a chemical engineer	What career path was decided upon for Von Neuman?
Von Neumann's habilitation was completed on December 13, 1927, and he started his lectures as a privatdozent at the University of Berlin in 1928	Where did Von Neumann begin to lecture in 1928?
On New Year's Day in 1930, von Neumann married Mariette Kövesi, who had studied economics at the Budapest University	When did Von Neumann get married?
In 1933, von Neumann was offered a lifetime professorship on the faculty of the Institute for Advanced Study when the institute's plan to appoint Hermann Weyl fell through	In what year was Von Neumann offered a lifetime professorship? 
"He enjoyed Yiddish and ""off-color"" humor "	"What type of ""off color"" humor did Von Neumann especially enjoy?"
Von Neumann's closest friend in the United States was mathematician Stanislaw Ulam	What mathematician was Von Nemann's closest friend?
At the beginning of the 20th century, efforts to base mathematics on naive set theory suffered a setback due to Russell's paradox 	What caused a setback in naive set theory at the beginning of 20th century?
To demonstrate that the addition of this new axiom to the others did not produce contradictions, von Neumann introduced a method of demonstration, called the method of inner models, which later became an essential instrument in set theory	What is the method to demonstrate that no contradictions were created by the addition of axiom of foundation?
The second approach to the problem took as its base the notion of class, and defines a set as a class which belongs to other classes, while a proper class is defined as a class which does not belong to other classes	What is a proper class?
A strongly negative answer arrived in September 1930 at the historic mathematical Congress of Königsberg, in which Kurt Gödel announced his first theorem of incompleteness: the usual axiomatic systems are incomplete, in the sense that they cannot prove every truth which is expressible in their language	In 1930 who gave a strongly negative answer to Von Neuman's approach to the axiomatic system of theory of sets?
But von Neumann, who had participated at the Congress, confirmed his fame as an instantaneous thinker, and in less than a month was able to communicate to Gödel himself an interesting consequence of his theorem: namely that the usual axiomatic systems are unable to demonstrate their own consistency	How long did it take von Neumann to figure a response to theory of incompleteness?
Von Neumann was motivated by his discovery of von Neumann algebras with a dimension function taking a continuous range of dimensions, and the first example of a continuous geometry other than projective space was the projections of the hyperfinite type II factor	What was the first example of continuous geometry?
In a series of famous papers, von Neumann made spectacular contributions to measure theory	In what way did von Neumann make spectacular contributions to measure theory?
In a number of von Neumann's papers, the methods of argument he employed are considered even more significant than the results	What is often considered more important than the results of von Neumann's papers?
A von Neumann algebra is a *-algebra of bounded operators on a Hilbert space that is closed in the weak operator topology and contains the identity operator	What is von Neumann algebra?
Von Neumann worked on lattice theory between 1937 and 1939	What did von Neumann work on in 1937 - 39?
This conclusion is the culmination of 140 pages of brilliant and incisive algebra involving entirely novel axioms	What type of axioms were used by von Neumann in his lattice work?
Von Neumann was the first to establish a rigorous mathematical framework for quantum mechanics, known as the Dirac–von Neumann axioms, with his 1932 work Mathematical Foundations of Quantum Mechanics	Who established the framework for quantum mechanics?
The physics of quantum mechanics was thereby reduced to the mathematics of Hilbert spaces and linear operators acting on them	What are the physics of quantum mechanics?
"Von Neumann's abstract treatment permitted him also to confront the foundational issue of determinism versus non-determinism, and in the book he presented a proof that the statistical results of quantum mechanics could not possibly be averages of an underlying set of determined ""hidden variables,"" as in classical statistical mechanics"	Von Neumann's abstract treatment allowed him to work on what foundational issue?
He concluded that the entire physical universe could be made subject to the universal wave function	What results came from von Neumann's deep analysis of the measurement problem?
In a famous paper of 1936 with Garrett Birkhoff, the first work ever to introduce quantum logics, von Neumann and Birkhoff first proved that quantum mechanics requires a propositional calculus substantially different from all classical logics and rigorously isolated a new algebraic structure for quantum logics	With whom did von Neuman work on a paper in 1936 that introduce quantum logic?
Von Neumann proved his minimax theorem in 1928	What year was game theory established?
The reason for this is that a quantum disjunction, unlike the case for classical disjunction, can be true even when both of the disjuncts are false and this is, in turn, attributable to the fact that it is frequently the case, in quantum mechanics, that a pair of alternatives are semantically determinate, while each of its members are necessarily indeterminate	What is the difference of quantum disjunction from classic?
Such strategies, which minimize the maximum loss for each player, are called optimal	What is optimal strategy?
Von Neumann raised the intellectual and mathematical level of economics in several stunning publications	How did von Neumann raise the level of economics?
"In this model, the probability vector p represents the prices of the goods while the probability vector q represents the ""intensity"" at which the production process would run"	In von Neumann's model what does p represent?
Von Neumann's results have been viewed as a special case of linear programming, where von Neumann's model uses only nonnegative matrices	What were von Neumann's model an example of?
His interest in economics that led to that paper began as follows: When lecturing at Berlin in 1928 and 1929 he spent his summers back home in Budapest, and so did the economist Nicholas Kaldor, and they hit it off	When did von Neumann's interest in economics begin?
Later, von Neumann suggested a new method of linear programming, using the homogeneous linear system of Gordan , which was later popularized by Karmarkar's algorithm	What was the new method of linear programming that von Neumann suggested?
In 1941, he derived the exact distribution of the ratio of the mean square of successive differences to the sample variance for independent and identically normally distributed variables	When did von NEumann establish mean square ratio?
Von Neumann made fundamental contributions in exploration of problems in numerical hydrodynamics	The algorithm defining artificial viscosity is a fundamental contribution to what area?
Von Neumann's principal contribution to the atomic bomb was in the concept and design of the explosive lenses needed to compress the plutonium core of the Fat Man weapon that was later dropped on Nagasaki	What principal contribution did von Neumann make to atomic bomb?
When it turned out that there would not be enough uranium-235 to make more than one bomb, the implosive lens project was greatly expanded and von Neumann's idea was implemented	what change was made when shortage of uranium 235 was apparent?
Along with four other scientists and various military personnel, von Neumann was included in the target selection committee responsible for choosing the Japanese cities of Hiroshima and Nagasaki as the first targets of the atomic bomb	What other people worked with von Neumann on target selection?
On July 16, 1945, with numerous other Manhattan Project personnel, von Neumann was an eyewitness to the first atomic bomb blast, code named Trinity, conducted as a test of the implosion method device, at the bombing range near Alamogordo Army Airfield, 35 miles southeast of Socorro, New Mexico	On what day was the first atomic blast?
"He then collaborated with Klaus Fuchs on further development of the bomb, and in 1946 the two filed a secret patent on ""Improvement in Methods and Means for Utilizing Nuclear Energy"", which outlined a scheme for using a fission bomb to compress fusion fuel to initiate nuclear fusion"	With whom did von Neumann collaborate for further development of the hydrogen bomb?
In 1950, von Neumann became a consultant to the Weapons Systems Evaluation Group , whose function was to advise the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the United States Secretary of Defense on the development and use of new technologies	In 1950 von Neumann became a consultant for what organization?
In 1955, von Neumann became a commissioner of the AEC	In what year did von Neumann become commissioner of the AEC?
Its purpose was to decide on the feasibility of building an ICBM large enough to carry a thermonuclear weapon	What was the purpose of top secret ICBM committee?
Von Neumann is credited with the equilibrium strategy of mutual assured destruction, providing the deliberately humorous acronym, MAD	What was MAD?
Von Neumann entered government service primarily because he felt that, if freedom and civilization were to survive, it would have to be because the US would triumph over totalitarianism from Nazism, Fascism and Soviet Communism	Why did von Neumann join government work?
Von Neumann was a founding figure in computing	Who was the inventor of the merge-sort algorithm?
Von Neumann's hydrogen bomb work was played out in the realm of computing, where he and Stanislaw Ulam developed simulations on von Neumann's digital computers for the hydrodynamic computations	Where were the computations for hydrogen bomb worked out?
While consulting for the Moore School of Electrical Engineering at the University of Pennsylvania on the EDVAC project, von Neumann wrote an incomplete First Draft of a Report on the EDVAC	What nullified patent claims of EDVAC designers?
The electronics of the new ENIAC ran at one-sixth the speed, but this in no way degraded the ENIAC's performance, since it was still entirely I/O bound	What was the speed difference with new ENIAC?
Stochastic computing was first introduced in a pioneering paper by von Neumann in 1953	When was stochastic computing introduced?
Von Neumann's team performed the world's first numerical weather forecasts on the ENIAC computer; von Neumann published the paper Numerical Integration of the Barotropic Vorticity Equation in 1950	On what computer was the first numerical weather forecast produced?
Von Neumann's ability to instantaneously perform complex operations in his head stunned other mathematicians	How quickly was von Neumann able to complete math in his head?
"Lothar Wolfgang Nordheim described von Neumann as the ""fastest mind I ever met"", and Jacob Bronowski wrote ""He was the cleverest man I ever knew, without exception"	How did Lothar Wolfgang Nordheim describe von Neumann? 
"""I have sometimes wondered whether a brain like von Neumann's does not indicate a species superior to that of man"", said Nobel Laureate Hans Bethe of Cornell University"	What did Nobel Laureate Hans Bethe think of von NEumann's ability?
In 1955, von Neumann was diagnosed with what was either bone or pancreatic cancer	In what year was von Neumann diagnosed with cancer?
Father Strittmatter administered the last sacraments to him	Who administered the last sacrament to von Neumann?
The console was first officially announced at E3 2005, and was released at the end of 2006	What year was the PlayStation 3 released?
3	What version of the PlayStation was released at the end of 2007?
Sony officially unveiled PlayStation 3 to the public on May 16, 2005, at E3 2005, along with a 'boomerang' shaped prototype design of the Sixaxis controller	What shape was the Sixaxis prototype in?
The initial prototype shown in May 2005 featured two HDMI ports, three Ethernet ports and six USB ports; however, when the system was shown again a year later at E3 2006, these were reduced to one HDMI port, one Ethernet port and four USB ports, presumably to cut costs	How many USB ports did the original PS3 prototype have?
On September 6, 2006, Sony announced that PAL region PlayStation 3 launch would be delayed until March 2007, because of a shortage of materials used in the Blu-ray drive	Which region experience a setback that pushed back the release of the PlayStation 3?
The console was originally planned for a global release through November, but at the start of September the release in Europe and the rest of the world was delayed until March	Instead of November, for what month of the following year was the release rescheduled?
Following speculation that Sony was working on a 'slim' model, Sony officially announced the PS3 CECH-2000 model on August 18, 2009, at the Sony Gamescom press conference	What was the model number of the slim version of the PlayStation 3?
In September 2012 at the Tokyo Game Show, Sony announced that a new, slimmer PS3 redesign was due for release in late 2012 and that it would be available with either a 250 GB or 500 GB hard drive	At what event did Sony tell everyone about the CECH-4000?
PlayStation 3 launched in North America with 14 titles, with another three being released before the end of 2006	How many games could you buy to go with your PS3 when it launched in North America?
At E3 2007, Sony was able to show a number of their upcoming video games for PlayStation 3, including Heavenly Sword, Lair, Ratchet & Clank Future: Tools of Destruction, Warhawk and Uncharted: Drake's Fortune; all of which were released in the third and fourth quarters of 2007	Which Ratchet & Clank title debuted at E3 2007?
Sony have since launched their budget range of PlayStation 3 titles, known as the Greatest Hits range in North America, the Platinum range in Europe and Australia and The Best range in Japan	What's Sony's budget line of PS3 games called in Japan?
In December 2008, the CTO of Blitz Games announced that it would bring stereoscopic 3D gaming and movie viewing to Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 with its own technology	What company said it would bring 3D technology to the PS3?
Fixstars Solutions sells a version of Yellow Dog Linux for PlayStation 3 	What operating system does Fixstars Solutions offer for the PlayStation 3?
PlayStation 3 uses the Cell microprocessor, designed by Sony, Toshiba and IBM, as its CPU, which is made up of one 3	What type of microprocessor is in a PS3?
3	Which PlayStaytion uses a Cell processor?
At its press conference at the 2007 Tokyo Game Show, Sony announced DualShock 3 , a PlayStation 3 controller with the same function and design as Sixaxis, but with vibration capability included	What did Sony name their vibrating PS3 controller?
The standard PlayStation 3 version of the XrossMediaBar includes nine categories of options	"How is ""XrossMediaBar"" abbreviated?"
Purchased games and content from the PlayStation Network store are governed by PlayStation's Network Digital Rights Management 	"What does the abbreviation ""NDRM"" represent?"
Photo Gallery is an optional application to view, create and group photos from PS3, which is installed separately from the system software at 105 MB	What application lets PS3 users view and organize photographs?
Since June 2009 VidZone has offered a free music video streaming service in Europe, Australia and New Zealand	In what month of 2009 did VidZone start free service to some countries?
The 'OtherOS' functionality was not present in the updated PS Slim models, and the feature was subsequently removed from previous versions of the PS3 as part of the machine's firmware update version 3	What functionality did the PlayStation 3 lose in version 3.21 of its firmware update?
"On March 1, 2010 , many of the original ""fat"" PlayStation 3 models worldwide were experiencing errors related to their internal system clock"	What part of the original model PS3s starting causing problems in March of 2010?
Sony stated that the affected models incorrectly identified 2010 as a leap year, because of a bug in the BCD method of storing the date	What were the broken models mistakenly classifying 2010 as?
For example, Formula One Championship Edition, a racing game, was shown at E3 2006 using a PSP as a real-time rear-view mirror	What PS3 game can integrate a PlayStation Portable to use as a rear-view mirror?
PlayStation Network is the unified online multiplayer gaming and digital media delivery service provided by Sony Computer Entertainment for PlayStation 3 and PlayStation Portable, announced during the 2006 PlayStation Business Briefing meeting in Tokyo	In what city did Sony hold their 2006 PlayStation Business Briefing?
PlayStation Plus is a premium PlayStation Network subscription service that was officially unveiled at E3 2010 by Jack Tretton, President and CEO of SCEA	What's the name of Sony's exclusive PlayStation Network subscription service?
The PlayStation Store is an online virtual market available to users of Sony's PlayStation 3 and PlayStation Portable game consoles via the PlayStation Network	Where can you buy downloadable content for the PSP and PS3?
What's New was announced at Gamescom 2009 and was released on September 1, 2009, with PlayStation 3 system software 3	What new feature for PS3 was released in September of 2009?
"What's New has four sections: ""Our Pick"", ""Recently Played"", latest information and new content available in PlayStation Store"	How many different sections does What's New have?
PlayStation Home is a virtual 3D social networking service for the PlayStation Network	What does Sony call their social network?
Life with PlayStation used virtual globe data to display news and information by city	Life was able to personalize information for users by what location division?
"On April 20, 2011, Sony shut down the PlayStation Network and Qriocity for a prolonged interval, revealing on April 23 that this was due to ""an external intrusion on our system"""	What was the date Sony shut down the PS Network because of a security breach?
The PS3 lacked the unique gameplay of the more affordable Wii which became that generation's most successful console in terms of units sold	What was PlayStation 3's toughest competitor in the video game market?
However, they were priced at US$499 and US$599 respectively, meaning that units may have been sold at an estimated loss of $306 or $241 depending on model, if the cost estimates were correct, and thus may have contributed to Sony's games division posting an operating loss of ¥232	In contrast to the production cost, what was the retail price for a 20 GB PlayStation 3?
"In January 2008, Kaz Hirai, CEO of Sony Computer Entertainment, suggested that the console may start making a profit by early 2009, stating that, ""the next fiscal year starts in April and if we can try to achieve that in the next fiscal year that would be a great thing"" and that "" is not a definite commitment, but that is what I would like to try to shoot for"""	Who was Sony's CEO at the start of 2008?
Since the system's launch, production costs have been reduced significantly as a result of phasing out the Emotion Engine chip and falling hardware costs	Along with a drop in the cost of hardware, PS3 has gotten cheaper to make because what chip was phased out?
Ars Technica's original launch review gave PS3 only a 6/10, but second review of the console in June 2008 rated it a 9/10	What rating did Ars Technica initially give PlayStation 3?
"PS3 was given the number-eight spot on PC World magazine's list of ""The Top 21 Tech Screwups of 2006"", where it was criticized for being ""Late, Expensive and Incompatible"""	What list by PC World ranked PlayStation eighth, in a bad way?
"In 2007, Gabe Newell of Valve said ""The PS3 is a total disaster on so many levels, I think it's really clear that Sony lost track of what customers and what developers wanted"""	"In what year did Gabe Newell call the PS3 ""a total disaster""?"
He believes these factors are pushing developers away from working on the console	What group does Bobby Kotick think is being discouraged from working on the PS3?
In addition, both Home Theater Magazine and Ultimate AV have given the system's Blu-ray playback very favorable reviews, stating that the quality of playback exceeds that of many current standalone Blu-ray Disc players	What PlayStation 3 feature did Home Theater Magazine most like about PS3?
com in the video games section for fifteen consecutive days	For how many consecutive days did the PS3 Slim hold the number-one spot on Amazon.com?
CNET awarded PS3 Slim four out of five stars praising its Blu-ray capabilities, 120 GB hard drive, free online gaming service and more affordable pricing point, but complained about the lack of backward compatibility for PlayStation 2 games	What aspect of the PS3 Slim was CNET unhappy was missing for PS2 games?
"Gaming website Spong praised the new Super Slim's quietness, stating ""The most noticeable noise comes when the drive seeks a new area of the disc, such as when starting to load a game, and this occurs infrequently"	What quality of the PS3 Super Slim was the website Spong excited about?
"Tech media website CNET gave new Super Slim 4 out of 5 stars , saying ""The Super Slim PlayStation 3 shrinks a powerful gaming machine into an even tinier package while maintaining the same features as its predecessors: a great gaming library and a strong array of streaming services ["	What website rated the Super Slim four out of five stars?
"Technology magazine T3 gave the Super Slim model a positive review, stating the console is almost ""nostalgic"" in the design similarities to the original ""fat"" model, ""While we don’t know whether it will play PS3 games or Blu-ray discs any differently yet, the look and feel of the new PS3 Slim is an obvious homage to the original PS3, minus the considerable excess weight"	"What magazine described the Super Slim as ""nostalgic""?"
In the United Kingdom, for instance, the sovereign may appear personally in the House of Lords or may appoint Lords Commissioners, who announce that royal assent has been granted at a ceremony held at the Palace of Westminster	When royal assent takes place in the UK, where does the sovereign make an appearance?
Royal assent is the method by which a country's constitutional monarch formally approves an act of that nation's parliament, thus making it a law or letting it be promulgated as law	Royal assent is a process of approving a nation's legislative acts by whom?
Under modern constitutional conventions, the sovereign acts on the advice of his or her ministers	Modern-day sovereigns often acts on the advice of whom?
Originally, legislative power was exercised by the sovereign acting on the advice of the Curia Regis, or Royal Council, in which important magnates and clerics participated and which evolved into parliament	"What is another name for ""Curia Regis""?"
Charles I dissolved parliament in 1629, after it passed motions critical of and bills seeking to restrict his arbitrary exercise of power	Which monarch was responsible for dissolving parliament in 1629?
During the rule of the succeeding Hanoverian dynasty, power was gradually exercised more by parliament and the government	During whose rule was power transferred more to parliament?
After a bill has been passed, the Presiding Officer of the Scottish Parliament submits it to the monarch for royal assent after a four-week period, during which the Advocate General for Scotland, the Lord Advocate, the Attorney General or the Secretary of State for Scotland may refer the bill to the Supreme Court of the United Kingdom for review of its legality	In Scotland, who is responsible for submitting a bill for royal assent?
Measures, which were the means by which the National Assembly for Wales passed legislation between 2006 and 2011, were assented to by the Queen by means of an Order in Council	What was the name of the method by which Wales passed legislation in the 2000's?
Instead, the monarch directly grants royal assent by Order in Council	The sovereign grants assent by which order?
By ancient custom, an act did not come into force until it had been promulgated at an open-air sitting of Tynwald, usually held on Tynwald Hill at St John's on St John's Day , but, since the adoption of the Gregorian calendar in 1753, on 5 July 	Under ancient custom, an Act of Tynwald didn't go into effect until decreed at which location?
B	On what day does St John's Day occur?
"Since 1993, the Sodor and Man Diocesan Synod has had power to enact measures making provision ""with respect to any matter concerning the Church of England in the Island"""	Since 1993, which body has had power to enact measures?
If the Governor General of Canada is unable to give assent, it can be done by either the Deputy of the Governor General of Canada—the Chief Justice of Canada—or another justice of the Supreme Court of Canada	In the Canadian federal government, who is typically responsible for deciding wether to give assent?
While royal assent has not been withheld in the United Kingdom since 1708, it has often been withheld in British colonies and former colonies by governors acting on royal instructions	Which year was royal assent last withheld in the UK?
In 1976, a bill originating in the House of Representatives was mistakenly submitted to the Governor-General and assented to	The bill from the Australian House of Representatives was mistakenly sent and assented to by whom in 1976?
Special procedures apply to legislation passed by Tynwald, the legislature of the Isle of Man	What term refers to the legislature of the Isle of man?
In Commonwealth realms other than the UK, royal assent is granted or withheld either by the realm's sovereign or, more frequently, by the representative of the sovereign, the governor-general	In Commonwealth realms, who is the representative of the sovereign?
Since the Balfour Declaration of 1926 and the Statute of Westminster 1931, the all Commonwealth realms have been sovereign kingdoms, the monarch and governors-general acting solely on the advice of the local ministers who generally maintain the support of the legislature and are the ones who secure the passage of bills	What two documents declared all Commonwealth realms as sovereign kingdoms?
In the United Kingdom, a bill is presented for royal assent after it has passed all the required stages in both the House of Commons and the House of Lords	Which Houses in the UK must approve a bill before it is assented?
The Clerk of the Parliaments, an official of the House of Lords, traditionally states a formula in Anglo-Norman Law French, indicating the sovereign's decision	In what language does the Clerk of the Parliaments announce Parliament's decision?
The Clerk of the Crown, standing on the sovereign's right, then read aloud the titles of the bills 	When assention was formally granted in person, who read the titles of the bills?
In 1542, Henry sought to execute his fifth wife, Catherine Howard, whom he accused of committing adultery; the execution was to be authorised not after a trial but by a bill of attainder, to which he would have to personally assent after listening to the entire text	Why did Henry VIII wish to execute his fifth wife?
When granting assent by commission, the sovereign authorises three or more lords who are Privy Counsellors to grant assent in his or her name	How many lords are usually present during assent by Commissioner?
During the 1960s, the ceremony of assenting by commission was discontinued and is now only employed once a year, at the end of the annual parliamentary session	During which decade was assention by commission discontinued?
Thus, unlike the granting of royal assent by the monarch in person or by Royal Commissioners, the method created by the Royal Assent Act 1967 does not require both houses to meet jointly for the purpose of receiving the notice of royal assent	What is unique about the method used for assention allowed by the Royal Assent Act 1967?
When the act is assented to by the sovereign in person, or by empowered Royal Commissioners, royal assent is considered given at the moment when the assent is declared in the presence of both houses jointly assembled	When assent is granted in person, when is it formally considered final?
Independently of the method used to signify royal assent, it is the responsibility of the Clerk of the Parliaments, once the assent has been duly notified to both houses, not only to endorse the act in the name of the monarch with the formal Norman French formula, but to certify that assent has been granted	Whose responsibility is it to assure that assent has been granted?
A similar practice is followed in New Zealand, where the governor-general has not personally granted the Royal Assent in parliament since 1875	In what year did the New Zealand governor-general last personally grant the royal assent in parliament?
In Canada, the traditional ceremony for granting assent in parliament was regularly used until the 21st century, long after it had been discontinued in the United Kingdom and other Commonwealth realms	When did Canada finally cease to use the traditional ceremony for granting assent as regular practice?
The Royal Assent ceremony takes place in the Senate, as the sovereign is traditionally barred from the House of Commons	From where is the sovereign typically forbidden?
In Belgium, the sanction royale has the same legal effect as royal assent; the Belgian constitution requires a theoretically possible refusal of royal sanction to be countersigned—as any other act of the monarch—by a minister responsible before the House of Representatives	What is royal assent called in Belgium?
Article 93 of that document gives the Jordanian sovereign six months to sign or veto any legislation sent to him from the National Assembly; if he vetoes it within that timeframe, the assembly may override his veto by a two-thirds vote of both houses; otherwise, the law does not go into effect 	How much time does a Jordinian leader have to sign or veto legislation?
"After the House of Representatives has debated the law, it either approves it and sends it to the Senate with the text ""The Second Chamber of the States General sends the following approved proposal of law to the First Chamber"", or it rejects it and returns it to the government with the text ""The Second Chamber of the States General has rejected the accompanying proposal of law"	What text is written and sent to the Senate if the House approves of a law?
""" A law that has received royal assent will be published in the State Magazine, with the original being kept in the archives of the King's Offices"	Where are laws published after receiving assent?
Articles 77–79 of the Norwegian Constitution specifically grant the monarch of Norway the right to withhold royal assent from any bill passed by the Storting	Which articles in the Norwegian Constitution allow the monarch to reject a bill that has been passed through the Sorting?
Article 92 invests the monarch with the right to call for a referendum, on the advice of the president of the government and the authorisation of the cortes	Which article in the Spanish constitution gives the monarch the right to ask for a referendum?
"When the Spanish media asked King Juan Carlos if he would endorse the bill legalising same-sex marriages, he answered ""Soy el Rey de España y no el de Bélgica"" —a reference to King Baudouin I of Belgium, who had refused to sign the Belgian law legalising abortion"	What was King Juan Carlos' response to the media when asked if he would sign a bill supporting same-sex marriage?
Instead, the constitution mandates the next person of age in the line of succession would immediately become regent	If the Spanish monarch is deemed incapable of granting assent, who is the power transferred to?
Articles 41 and 68 of the constitution empower the sovereign to withhold royal assent from bills adopted by the Legislative Assembly	Which articles allow the soverign to refise consent even when the bills have been passed through the Legislative assembly?
In mathematics, a group is an algebraic structure consisting of a set of elements equipped with an operation that combines any two elements to form a third element	What is an arithmetical structure comprising of a set of elements including an operation that joins any two elements to form a third element?
Groups share a fundamental kinship with the notion of symmetry	What shares an essential relationship to groups?
The concept of a group arose from the study of polynomial equations, starting with Évariste Galois in the 1830s	Where did the idea of a group come from?
The set G is called the underlying set of the group 	What is known as underlying set of the group?
These symmetries are represented by functions	What sends a point in the square to the relating point under the symmetry? 
The modern concept of an abstract group developed out of several fields of mathematics	What modern concept was created from many fields of mathematics?
The convergence of these various sources into a uniform theory of groups started with Camille Jordan's Traité des substitutions et des équations algébriques 	When did the uniform theory of groups develop from different sources? 
The University of Chicago's 1960–61 Group Theory Year brought together group theorists such as Daniel Gorenstein, John G	Where did the group of theorists first meet?
To understand groups beyond the level of mere symbolic manipulations as above, more structural concepts have to be employed	What ideas are used to understand groups beyond symbols?
Two groups G and H are called isomorphic if there exist group homomorphisms a: G → H and b: H → G, such that applying the two functions one after another in each of the two possible orders gives the identity functions of G and H	What are two groups called if they include homomorphisms?
In the example above, the identity and the rotations constitute a subgroup R = {id, r1, r2, r3}, highlighted in red in the group table above: any two rotations composed are still a rotation, and a rotation can be undone by (i	What is composed of two rotations?
the rotation operations are irrelevant to the question whether a reflection has been performed	When is it preferable to consider two group elements to be the same?
This set inherits a group operation from the original group G: • = N for all g and h in G	What is another term for coset multiplication?
Quotient groups and subgroups together form a way of describing every group by its presentation: any group is the quotient of the free group over the generators of the group, quotiented by the subgroup of relations	What groups can be combined to describe every group?
Sub- and quotient groups are related in the following way: a subset H of G can be seen as an injective map H → G, i	What map shows the relation between sub and quotient groups?
Mathematical objects are often examined by associating groups to them and studying the properties of the corresponding groups	What are usually analyzed by associating groups to them and studying the elements of the corresponding groups?
In modular arithmetic, two integers are added and then the sum is divided by a positive integer called the modulus	What positive integer is used to divide the sum of two positive integers in modular mathematics?
For any prime number p, there is also the multiplicative group of integers modulo p	What term describes the group of integers related to a prime number?
p	What is the result of modular multiplication divided by?
In the groups Z/nZ introduced above, the element 1 is primitive, so these groups are cyclic	What is a group labeled when the element 1 is primitive?
1	What element is not primitive in groups Z/nZ?
Symmetry groups are groups consisting of symmetries of given mathematical objects—be they of geometric nature, such as the introductory symmetry group of the square, or of algebraic nature, such as polynomial equations and their solutions	What are groups consisting of symmetries of given arithmetic concepts?
Likewise, group theory helps predict the changes in physical properties that occur when a material undergoes a phase transition, for example, from a cubic to a tetrahedral crystalline form	What aids in predicting changes of physical traits?
Finite symmetry groups such as the Mathieu groups are used in coding theory, which is in turn applied in error correction of transmitted data, and in CD players	What are examples of finite symmetry groups used in coding theory?
Matrix groups consist of matrices together with matrix multiplication	What groups combine matrices with matrix multiplication?
Similar formulae are known for cubic and quartic equations, but do not exist in general for degree 5 and higher	What degree does not include simple formulas for cubic and quatric equations?
A group is called finite if it has a finite number of elements	What does a finite group include?
Mathematicians often strive for a complete classification of a mathematical notion	What level of finality do mathematicians try to reach with math concepts? 
In order for the group law and the topology to interweave well, the group operations must be continuous functions, that is, g • h, and g−1 must not vary wildly if g and h vary only little	What group operations must occur for group law and topology to integrate well?
Matrix groups over these fields fall under this regime, as do adele rings and adelic algebraic groups, which are basic to number theory	What concepts are fundamental to number theory?
Lie groups are of fundamental importance in modern physics: Noether's theorem links continuous symmetries to conserved quantities	What concept is of basic importance in modern physics?
For example, if the requirement that every element has an inverse is eliminated, the resulting algebraic structure is called a monoid	What product is created if the requirement that every element has an inverse is eliminated?
F	What is derived from ,-)?
The Central African Republic , or Centrafrique ) is a landlocked country in Central Africa	Where is the Central African Republic located?
What is today the Central African Republic has been inhabited for millennia; however, the country's current borders were established by France, which ruled the country as a colony starting in the late 19th century	Who established CAR's borders?
Approximately 10,000 years ago, desertification forced hunter-gatherer societies south into the Sahel regions of northern Central Africa, where some groups settled and began farming as part of the Neolithic Revolution	How long ago did people start living in the area?
During the 16th and 17th centuries slave traders began to raid the region as part of the expansion of the Saharan and Nile River slave routes	When did the slave trade hit the CAR region?
In 1920 French Equatorial Africa was established and Ubangi-Shari was administered from Brazzaville	When was Equatorial Africa established?
In September 1940, during the Second World War, pro-Gaullist French officers took control of Ubangi-Shari and General Leclerc established his headquarters for the Free French Forces in Bangui	During what war did French officers setup headquarters in CAR?
In the Ubangi-Shari Territorial Assembly election in 1957, MESAN captured 347,000 out of the total 356,000 votes, and won every legislative seat, which led to Boganda being elected president of the Grand Council of French Equatorial Africa and vice-president of the Ubangi-Shari Government Council	What was the overwhelming amount of votes MESAN captured?
In April 1979, young students protested against Bokassa's decree that all school attendees would need to buy uniforms from a company owned by one of his wives	What caused a violent uprising?
By 1990, inspired by the fall of the Berlin Wall, a pro-democracy movement arose	What was inspired by the fall of the Berlin wall?
When a second round of elections were finally held in 1993, again with the help of the international community coordinated by GIBAFOR, Ange-Félix Patassé won in the second round of voting with 53% of the vote while Goumba won 45	When was a second democratic election held?
A new constitution was approved on 28 December 1994 but had little impact on the country's politics	When was the new constitution for CAR approved?
In the aftermath of the failed coup, militias loyal to Patassé sought revenge against rebels in many neighborhoods of Bangui and incited unrest including the murder of many political opponents	The failed coup caused what effects?
In 2004 the Central African Republic Bush War began as forces opposed to Bozizé took up arms against his government	What war started in 2004?
The Syrte Agreement in February and the Birao Peace Agreement in April 2007 called for a cessation of hostilities, the billeting of FDPC fighters and their integration with FACA, the liberation of political prisoners, integration of FDPC into government, an amnesty for the UFDR, its recognition as a political party, and the integration of its fighters into the national army	What agreement called for the stop of Hostilities?
Michel Djotodia took over as president and in May 2013 Central African Republic's Prime Minister Nicolas Tiangaye requested a UN peacekeeping force from the UN Security Council and on 31 May former President Bozizé was indicted for crimes against humanity and incitement of genocide	Who became president in 2013?
In the southwest, the Dzanga-Sangha National Park is located in a rain forest area	What national part is located in the South West?
There are many missionary groups operating in the country, including Lutherans, Baptists, Catholics, Grace Brethren, and Jehovah's Witnesses	What religious groups operate in CAR?
In 2006, due to ongoing violence, over 50,000 people in the country's northwest were at risk of starvation but this was averted due to assistance from the United Nations	Due to fighting, what threatened people in the NorthWest?
A new government was appointed on 31 March 2013, which consisted of members of Séléka and representatives of the opposition to Bozizé, one pro-Bozizé individual, and a number representatives of civil society	When was the new Government seated in CAR?
The per capita income of the Republic is often listed as being approximately $400 a year, one of the lowest in the world, but this figure is based mostly on reported sales of exports and largely ignores the unregistered sale of foods, locally produced alcoholic beverages, diamonds, ivory, bushmeat, and traditional medicine	What is the per capita income in CAR?
Agriculture is dominated by the cultivation and sale of food crops such as cassava, peanuts, maize, sorghum, millet, sesame, and plantain	What type of agriculture is popular in the CAR?
Presently, the Central African Republic has active television services, radio stations, internet service providers, and mobile phone carriers; Socatel is the leading provider for both internet and mobile phone access throughout the country	What is the major telecommunications provider in CAR?
The 2009 Human Rights Report by the United States Department of State noted that human rights in CAR were poor and expressed concerns over numerous government abuses	How are the human rights in the CAR?
Asthma is thought to be caused by a combination of genetic and environmental factors	What two factors cause asthma?
There is no cure for asthma	Is there a cure for asthma?
Asthma is characterized by recurrent episodes of wheezing, shortness of breath, chest tightness, and coughing	What are the characteristics of asthma?
A number of other health conditions occur more frequently in those with asthma, including gastro-esophageal reflux disease , rhinosinusitis, and obstructive sleep apnea	Do other health concerns happen less frequently or more frequently with asthma?
Many environmental factors have been associated with asthma's development and exacerbation including allergens, air pollution, and other environmental chemicals	What are some of the enviromental factors that have been linked to asthma?
The hygiene hypothesis attempts to explain the increased rates of asthma worldwide as a direct and unintended result of reduced exposure, during childhood, to non-pathogenic bacteria and viruses	What hypothesis tries to explain the increased amount of asthma world wide?
Family history is a risk factor for asthma, with many different genes being implicated	What else is a risk factor for asthma?
Asthma is the result of chronic inflammation of the conducting zone of the airways , which subsequently results in increased contractability of the surrounding smooth muscles	What is asthma the result of?
While asthma is a well recognized condition, there is not one universal agreed upon definition	Is there a universal definition of astham?
There is currently no precise test with the diagnosis typically based on the pattern of symptoms and response to therapy over time	Is there a test to determine asthma in an individual?
Spirometry is recommended to aid in diagnosis and management	What is recommended to help in the diagnosis of asthma?
Other supportive evidence includes: a ≥20% difference in peak expiratory flow rate on at least three days in a week for at least two weeks, a ≥20% improvement of peak flow following treatment with either salbutamol, inhaled corticosteroids or prednisone, or a ≥20% decrease in peak flow following exposure to a trigger	What is the rate that is used in most of the evidence?
Asthma may also be classified as atopic or non-atopic , based on whether symptoms are precipitated by allergens or not 	When asthma is caused by allergens that is called what? 
Although asthma is a chronic obstructive condition, it is not considered as a part of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease as this term refers specifically to combinations of disease that are irreversible such as bronchiectasis, chronic bronchitis, and emphysema	What kind of condition is asthma?
Exercise-induced bronchoconstriction is common in professional athletes	Exercise-induced bronchoconstriction is common in what profession?
E	What percentage of cyclists used inhaled beta 2 agonists?
Asthma as a result of workplace exposures, is a commonly reported occupational disease	Asthma that is the result of or made worse by workplace exposure is reported as what?
In children, other upper airway diseases such as allergic rhinitis and sinusitis should be considered as well as other causes of airway obstruction including: foreign body aspiration, tracheal stenosis or laryngotracheomalacia, vascular rings, enlarged lymph nodes or neck masses	What is a condition that can cause symptoms of astham in children?
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease can coexist with asthma and can occur as a complication of chronic asthma	What is a complication of chronic asthma?
The evidence for the effectiveness of measures to prevent the development of asthma is weak	What is weak that is not helping prevent the development of asthma?
Avoidance of triggers is a key component of improving control and preventing attacks	What is a key component of control and preventing asthma attacks?
For those with severe persistent asthma not controlled by inhaled corticosteroids and LABAs, bronchial thermoplasty may be an option	What type of person would use bronchial thermoplasty as an option?
The prognosis for asthma is generally good, especially for children with mild disease	What is the prognosis for asthma? 
As of 2011, 235–330 million people worldwide are affected by asthma, and approximately 250,000–345,000 people die per year from the disease	By 2011, how many people were affected by asthma?
From 2000 to 2010, the average cost per asthma-related hospital stay in the United States for children remained relatively stable at about $3,600, whereas the average cost per asthma-related hospital stay for adults increased from $5,200 to $6,600	How much was the average cost of hospital stays for asthma-related issues for children??
In 1873, one of the first papers in modern medicine on the subject tried to explain the pathophysiology of the disease while one in 1872, concluded that asthma can be cured by rubbing the chest with chloroform liniment	When was the first paper written about asthma?
Although the format was capable of offering higher-quality video and audio than its consumer rivals, the VHS and Betamax videocassette systems, LaserDisc never managed to gain widespread use in North America, largely due to high costs for the players and video titles themselves and the inability to record TV programming	Did LaserDisks offer higher or lower quality sound and picture than VHS?
LaserDisc was first available on the market, in Atlanta, Georgia, on December 15, 1978, two years after the introduction of the VHS VCR, and four years before the introduction of the CD 	Where was LaserDisc first available?
"Pioneer Electronics later purchased the majority stake in the format and marketed it as both LaserVision and LaserDisc in 1980, with some releases unofficially referring to the medium as ""Laser Videodisc"""	Who purchased the majority stake and re-marketed the product in 1980?
By the early 2000s, LaserDisc was completely replaced by DVD in the North American retail marketplace, as neither players nor software were then produced	What product replaced LaserDisc in North America by the early 2000s?
In true digital media the pits, or their edges, directly represent 1s and 0s of a binary digital information stream	What numbers are used in Binary information coding?
CAA55 was introduced in 1985 with a total playback capacity per side of 55 minutes 5 seconds, reducing the video capacity to resolve bandwidth issues with the inclusion of Digital Audio	What was the length capacity of the CAA55 format?
"1 kHz as on a CD; in the UK, the term ""LaserVision"" is used to refer to discs with analog sound, while ""LaserDisc"" is used for those with digital audio"	What was the difference between LaserDisc and LaserVision in the UK?
By the late 1990s with LaserDisc players and disc sales declining due to DVD's growing popularity the AV receiver manufacturers removed the demodulator circuit	What competition caused LaserDisc sales to decline?
At least where the digital audio tracks were concerned, the sound quality was unsurpassed at the time compared to consumer videotape, but the quality of the analog soundtracks varied greatly depending on the disc and, sometimes, the player	Was sound quality from disc to disc and between players consistent or varied?
A disc that included AC-3 audio forfeited the right analog audio channel to the modulated AC-3 RF stream	Which channel would not work in conjunction with AC-3 audio?
Many 1990s A/V receivers combine the AC-3 decoder and DTS decoder logic, but an integrated AC-3 demodulator is rare both in LaserDisc players and in later A/V receivers	Are integrated AC-3 demodulators common in LaserDisc players or a rare find?
PAL LaserDiscs have a slightly longer playing time than NTSC discs, but have fewer audio options	Which has a longer playing time: PAL LaserDiscs or NTSC discs?
In March 1984, Pioneer introduced the first consumer player with a solid-state laser, the LD-700	What was the name of the first solid-state laser consumer LaserDisc player?
"During its development, MCA, which co-owned the technology, referred to it as the Optical Videodisc System, ""Reflective Optical Videodisc"" or ""Laser Optical Videodisc"", depending on the document; changing the name once in 1969 to Disco-Vision and then again in 1978 to DiscoVision , which became the official spelling"	Which three names did MCA use for LaserDisc technology during its development?
"Philips' preferred name for the format was ""VLP"", after the Dutch words Video Langspeel-Plaat , which in English-speaking countries stood for Video Long-Play"	What did VLP stand for in English-speaking countries?
Pioneer Electronics also entered the optical disc market in 1977 as a 50/50 joint-venture with MCA called Universal-Pioneer and manufacturing MCA designed industrial players under the MCA DiscoVision name 	Which company joined a 50/50 partnership with MCA in 1977?
During the early years, MCA also manufactured discs for other companies including Paramount, Disney and Warner Bros	What other companies did MCA manufacture discs for?
It featured a far sharper picture with a horizontal resolution of 425 TVL lines for NTSC and 440 TVL lines for PAL discs, while VHS featured only 240 TVL lines with NTSC	How many horizontal TVL lines did LaserDisc have in comparison to VHS's 240?
LaserDiscs were initially cheaper than videocassettes to manufacture, because they lacked the moving parts and plastic outer shell that are necessary for VHS tapes to work, and the duplication process was much simpler	Were Laserdiscs initially cheaper or more costly to produce than their VHS counterparts?
LaserDiscs potentially had a much longer lifespan than videocassettes	Were Laserdiscs or VHS more durable in the long run?
On DVDs, data is stored in the form of digital blocks which make up each independent frame	How is data stored on DVDs?
In contrast to the entirely digital DVD, LaserDiscs use only analog video	Do LaserDiscs or DVD use analog video?
Unlike many DVD players, the transport mechanism always obeys commands from the user: pause, fast-forward, and fast-reverse commands are always accepted 	How does LaserDisc operation vary from DVD?
Some newer DVD players feature a repair+skip algorithm, which alleviates this problem by continuing to play the disc, filling in unreadable areas of the picture with blank space or a frozen frame of the last readable image and sound	What does the repair+skip feature on newer DVD players do?
"Similar to the CD versus LP sound quality debates common in the audiophile community, some videophiles argue that LaserDisc maintains a ""smoother"", more ""film-like"", natural image while DVD still looks slightly more artificial"	Which format is considered to look most realistic, LaserDisc or DVD?
The vertical blanking interval, where the Macrovision signal would be implemented, was also used for the internal timing on LaserDisc players, so test discs with Macrovision would not play at all	What was the vertical blanking interval used for in LaserDiscs, preventing Macrovision signal to be implemented?
"LaserDisc's support for multiple audio tracks allowed for vast supplemental materials to be included on-disc and made it the first available format for ""Special Edition"" releases; the 1984 Criterion Collection edition of Citizen Kane is generally credited as being the first ""Special Edition"" release to home video, and for setting the standard by which future SE discs were measured"	LaserDisc was the first format to provide what type of releases to consumers?
After one side was finished playing, a disc has to be flipped over in order to continue watching a movie, and some titles fill two or more discs	What was required of a LaserDisc to continue playback after 60 minutes?
Because of this, slight dust and scratches on the disc surface can result in read-errors which cause various video quality problems: glitches, streaks, bursts of static, or momentary picture interruptions	What video problems on a LaserDisc can be caused by dust or scratches?
The issue can arise when the laser optical pickup assembly within the player is out of alignment or because the disc is damaged or excessively warped, but it could also occur even with a properly functioning player and a factory-new disc, depending on electrical and mechanical alignment problems	"When does ""crosstalk"" occur?"
Assuming the player's optical pickup is in proper working order, crosstalk distortion normally does not occur during playback of CAV format LaserDiscs, as the rotational speed never varies	In which format does crosstalk generally not occur?
Another significant issue unique to LaserDisc is one involving the inconsistency of playback quality between different makers and models of player	Is LaserDisc quality consistent or inconsistent between player brands? 
Many early LDs were not manufactured properly; sometimes a substandard adhesive was used to sandwich together the two sides of the disc	"What substandard product was used in LD manufacturing that caused ""laser rot""?"
LaserDisc did not have high market penetration in North America due to the high cost of the players and discs, which were far more expensive than VHS players and tapes, and due to marketplace confusion with the technologically inferior CED, which also went by the name Videodisc	Why didn't LaserDiscs become popular in North America?
The format also became quite popular in Hong Kong during the 1990s before the introduction of VCDs and DVD; although people rarely bought the discs , high rental activity helped the video rental business in the city grow larger than it had ever been previously	How much did a LD cost in Hong Kong in the 1990s?
Although the LaserDisc format was supplanted by DVD by the late 1990s, many LD titles are still highly coveted by movie enthusiasts 	By what year had DVD taken over the LaserDisc market?
"In the early 1980s, Philips produced a LaserDisc player model adapted for a computer interface, dubbed ""professional"""	"In what decade did Philips produce a ""professional"" LD model for computer?"
Only 24 EditDroid systems were ever built, even though the ideas and technology are still in use today	How many EditDroid systems were ever built?
In 1986, a SCSI-equipped LaserDisc player attached to a BBC Master computer was used for the BBC Domesday Project	In what year did the Doomsday project occur?
Apple's HyperCard scripting language provided Macintosh computer users with a means to design databases of slides, animation, video and sounds from LaserDiscs and then to create interfaces for users to play specific content from the disc through software called LaserStacks	Which of Apple's programming languages allowed users to ceatively manipulate LaserDiscs?
Together they weighed 43 lb and sturdy handles were provided in case two people were required to lift the unit	How much did Matrox's computer/LD combo weigh?
The format's instant-access capability made it possible for a new breed of LaserDisc-based video arcade games and several companies saw potential in using LaserDiscs for video games in the 1980s and 1990s, beginning in 1983 with Sega's Astron Belt	What quality made LDs a consideration for videogames in the 1980s and 1990s?
"Encoded using NHK's MUSE ""Hi-Vision"" analogue TV system, MUSE discs would operate like standard LaserDiscs but would contain high-definition 1,125-line video with a 5:3 aspect ratio"	With what operating ratio would MUSE Discs operate?
Equipment prices were high, especially for early HDTVs which generally eclipsed US$10,000, and even in Japan the market for MUSE was tiny	What was the price for early HDTVs?
Squeeze LDs were enhanced 16:9-ratio widescreen LaserDiscs	"What were ""Squeeze LDs""?"
"A series of releases under the banner ""SQUEEZE LD"" from Pioneer of mostly Carolco titles included Basic Instinct, Stargate, Terminator 2: Judgment Day, Showgirls, Cutthroat Island, and Cliffhanger"	Which movie was released twice on Squeeze LD?
Another form of recordable LaserDisc that is completely playback-compatible with the LaserDisc format is the RLV, or Recordable LaserVision disc	What does the acronym RLV stand for?
The only cosmetic difference between an RLV disc and a regular factory-pressed LaserDiscs is their reflective purple-violet color resulting from the dye embedded in the reflective layer of the disc to make it recordable, as opposed to the silver mirror appearance of regular LDs	Why do RLV discs have a blue or purple reflective color?
There were also 12 cm (4	In contrast to large LD disks, what is the size of a standard CD?
VSDs were the same as CD-Vs, but without the audio CD tracks	What were VSDs lacking that CD-Vs included?
Though Britain and its allies were ultimately victorious in 1945, the United States and the Soviet Union rose as pre-eminent world powers and the British Empire declined	What year was Britain and allies victorious in the war?
His birthday was the 34th anniversary of the death of his great-grandfather, Prince Albert, the Prince Consort	What month and day was the death of Prince Albert?
Albert spent the first six months of 1913 on the training ship HMS Cumberland in the West Indies and on the east coast of Canada	Which ship did Alber train on in 1913?
In February 1918, he was appointed Officer in Charge of Boys at the Royal Naval Air Service's training establishment at Cranwell	What position was Albert appointed at Cranwell?
In October 1919, Albert went up to Trinity College, Cambridge, where he studied history, economics and civics for a year	What did Albert study in Trinity College?
An infatuation with the already-married Australian socialite Sheila, Lady Loughborough, came to an end in April 1920 when the King, with the promise of the dukedom of York, persuaded Albert to stop seeing her	Who was Albert infatuated with?
Because of his stammer, Albert dreaded public speaking	Why did Albert fear speaking in public?
The Duke and Duchess of York had two children: Elizabeth , and Margaret	What was Elizabeth's nickname?
As Edward was unmarried and had no children, Albert was the heir presumptive to the throne	Why was Albert the heir presumptive to the throne?
On the day of the abdication, the Oireachtas, the parliament of the Irish Free State, removed all direct mention of the monarch from the Irish constitution	What is the Oireachtas?
"Albert assumed the regnal name ""George VI"" to emphasise continuity with his father and restore confidence in the monarchy"	What regnal name did Albert adopt?
George VI's coronation took place on 12 May 1937, the date previously intended for Edward's coronation	What day did George VI become coronated?
The King was constitutionally bound to support Prime Minister Neville Chamberlain's appeasement of Hitler	Which prime minister was the King constitutionally bound to support?
In May and June 1939, the King and Queen toured Canada and the United States	Which two countries did the King and Queen tour in 1939?
The trip was intended to soften the strong isolationist tendencies among the North American public with regard to the developing tensions in Europe	What kind of tendencies did North America have?
In September 1939, Britain and the self-governing Dominions, but not Ireland, declared war on Nazi Germany	Against who did Britain declare war against in 1939?
In 1940, Winston Churchill replaced Neville Chamberlain as Prime Minister, though personally George would have preferred to appoint Lord Halifax	Who was Winston Churchill's predecessor?
The King visited military forces abroad in France in December 1939, North Africa and Malta in June 1943, Normandy in June 1944, southern Italy in July 1944, and the Low Countries in October 1944	What country did the King and Queen visit in July 1944?
The process of transformation from an empire to a voluntary association of independent states, known as the Commonwealth, gathered pace after the Second World War	What is the association of independent states in Britain called?
The Prime Minister of the Union of South Africa, Jan Smuts, was facing an election and hoped to make political capital out of the visit	Who was the Prime Minister of South Africa in 1947?
The stress of the war had taken its toll on the King's health, exacerbated by his heavy smoking and subsequent development of lung cancer among other ailments, including arteriosclerosis and thromboangiitis obliterans	What kind of cancer did the King develop?
George's Chapel, Windsor Castle, on the 15th	What church did the King's funeral take place on the 15th?
He became king at a point when public faith in the monarchy was at a low ebb	How high was public faith in the monarchy when King George assumed the throne?
Federalism refers to the mixed or compound mode of government, combining a general government with regional governments in a single political system	What is federalism? 
Until recently, in the absence of prior agreement on a clear and precise definition, the concept was thought to mean 'a division of sovereignty between two levels of government'	Before new research, what was the definition of federalism? 
The terms 'federalism' and 'confederalism' both have a root in the Latin word foedus, meaning treaty, pact or covenant	What is the Latin word for federalism? 
Whilst it is often perceived as an optimal solution for states comprising different cultural or ethnic communities, the federalist model seems to work best in largely homogeneous states such as the United States, Germany or Australia, but there is also evidence to the contrary such as in Switzerland	Where does the federalist model work best in? 
In the United States, federalism originally referred to belief in a stronger central government	When the U.S Constitution was being drafted, what did the federalist party support? 
"In contrast, Europe has a greater history of unitary states than North America, thus European ""federalism"" argues for a weaker central government, relative to a unitary state"	Who has a greater history of unitary states? 
On the 1st of January 1901 the nation-state of Australia officially came into existence as a federation	What happened on January 1st 1901?
In Brazil, the fall of the monarchy in 1889 by a military coup d'état led to the rise of the presidential system, headed by Deodoro da Fonseca	When was Brazil's fall of the monarchy?
The government of India is based on a tiered system, in which the Constitution of India delineates the subjects on which each tier of government has executive powers	What is the government of India based on? 
A distinguishing aspect of Indian federalism is that unlike many other forms of federalism, it is asymmetric	What is a distinguishing aspect of Indian federalism?
The strongest advocates of European federalism have been Germany, Italy, Belgium and Luxembourg while those historically most strongly opposed have been the United Kingdom, Denmark and France 	Who is the strongest advocate of the European Federalism?
The Federal War ended in 1863 with the signing of the Treaty of Coche by both the centralist government of the time and the Federal Forces	When did the federal war end?
On the other hand, Belgian federalism is federated with three components	How many components does the Belgian federalism have? 
Besides, unlike in the federal system, the main taxes are taken centrally from Madrid and then distributed to the Autonomous Communities	Which cities are recognized in the Spanish Democratic Constitution? 
"Anarchists are against the State but are not against political organization or ""governance""—so long as it is self-governance utilizing direct democracy"	What are anarchists against? 
Alternatively, or in addition to this practice, the members of an upper house may be indirectly elected by the government or legislature of the component states, as occurred in the United States prior to 1913, or be actual members or delegates of the state governments, as, for example, is the case in the German Bundesrat and in the Council of the European Union	Who can elect the members of the upper house? 
Federalism, and other forms of territorially autonomy, is generally seen as a useful way to structure political systems in order prevent violence among different groups with countries because it allows certain groups to legislate at the subnational level	What is federalism seen as? 
The post-Imperial nature of Russian subdivision of government changed towards a generally autonomous model which began with the establishment of the USSR 	What happened to Russia's subdivision of government? 
Federalism in the United States is the evolving relationship between state governments and the federal government of the United States	What is federalism in the United States?
Because the states were preexisting political entities, the U	Why did the constitution didn't have to explain federalism? 
The Federalist Party of the United States was opposed by the Democratic-Republicans, including powerful figures such as Thomas Jefferson	What was the federalist party of the United States opposed to?
The meaning of federalism, as a political movement, and of what constitutes a 'federalist', varies with country and historical context	What is the meaning of federalism?
Supreme Court did not invalidate any federal statute as exceeding Congress' power under the Commerce Clause	What are most actions in the federal government known as?
On one hand, this means that the Belgian political landscape, generally speaking, consists of only two components: the Dutch-speaking population represented by Dutch-language political parties, and the majority populations of Wallonia and Brussels, represented by their French-speaking parties	How many components does the Belgian political landscape include?
The US constitution provides that no state may be deprived of equal representation in the senate without its consent	The US Constitution says what to amendments? 
Where every component state of a federation possesses the same powers, we are said to find 'symmetric federalism'	What does every component state of federation possess?
Federations often have special procedures for amendment of the federal constitution	What does federations have for amendments of the constitution? 
The structures of most federal governments incorporate mechanisms to protect the rights of component states	What does the structures of the federal government incorporate?
Federations often employ the paradox of being a union of states, while still being states in themselves	What does federations often employ?
Usually, a federation is formed at two levels: the central government and the regions , and little to nothing is said about second or third level administrative political entities	When is a federation formed?
China is the largest unitary state in the world by both population and land area	China is the largest what?
The Philippines is a unitary state with some powers devolved to Local Government Units under the terms of the Local Government Code	What type of state is the Philippines?
"Spain is a unitary state with a high level of decentralisation, often regarded as a federal system in all but name or a ""federation without federalism"""	What type of state is Spain?
The United Kingdom has traditionally been governed as a unitary state by the Westminster Parliament in London	How has United Kingdom been governed?
In modern times, a process of devolution in the United Kingdom has decentralised power once again	What has the process of devolution in the UK did?
Federalism also finds expression in ecclesiology 	What is ecclesiology?
They point to the structure of the early Christian Church as described in the New Testament	What was the structure that the early Christian church described?
In almost all federations the central government enjoys the powers of foreign policy and national defense as exclusive federal powers	In nearly all federalism countries, central powers enjoy what?
The annelids are bilaterally symmetrical, triploblastic, coelomate, invertebrate organisms	What kind of symmetry do annelids have?
Septa separate the segments of many species, but are poorly defined or absent in others, and Echiura and Sipuncula show no obvious signs of segmentation	What separates many annelids' segments?
Although many species can reproduce asexually and use similar mechanisms to regenerate after severe injuries, sexual reproduction is the normal method in species whose reproduction has been studied	How do annelids normally reproduce?
Earthworms are Oligochaetes that support terrestrial food chains both as prey and in some regions are important in aeration and enriching of soil	How do earthworms help the soil they live in?
Since annelids are soft-bodied, their fossils are rare – mostly jaws and the mineralized tubes that some of the species secreted	Why are annelid fossils rare?
Their bodies are long, with segments that are divided externally by shallow ring-like constrictions called annuli and internally by septa at the same points, although in some species the septa are incomplete and in a few cases missing	What externally divides annelids' segments?
Most of an annelid's body consists of segments that are practically identical, having the same sets of internal organs and external chaetae and, in some species, appendages	What language does the term 'chaetae' come from?
Annelids' cuticles are made of collagen fibers, usually in layers that spiral in alternating directions so that the fibers cross each other	How are the layers arranged in annelids' cuticles?
Chetae are made of moderately flexible β-chitin and are formed by follicles, each of which has a chetoblast cell at the bottom and muscles that can extend or retract the cheta	What do chetoblast cells do?
In active crawlers and swimmers the parapodia are often divided into large upper and lower paddles on a very short trunk, and the paddles are generally fringed with chetae and sometimes with cirri and gills	What are cirri?
The brain generally forms a ring round the pharynx , consisting of a pair of ganglia above and in front of the pharynx, linked by nerve cords either side of the pharynx to another pair of ganglia just below and behind it	What are ganglia?
As in arthropods, each muscle fiber is controlled by more than one neuron, and the speed and power of the fiber's contractions depends on the combined effects of all its neurons	What species group are annelids' muscle control similar to?
The sensors are primarily single cells that detect light, chemicals, pressure waves and contact, and are present on the head, appendages and other parts of the body	What kind of things can annelids' sensors detect?
Most annelids have a pair of coelomata in each segment, separated from other segments by septa and from each other by vertical mesenteries	What are coelomata?
Many annelids move by peristalsis , or flex the body while using parapodia to crawl or swim	How does peristalsis work?
The fluid in the coelomata contains coelomocyte cells that defend the animals against parasites and infections	What can coelomocyte cells defend against?
However, leeches and their closest relatives have a body structure that is very uniform within the group but significantly different from that of other annelids, including other members of the Clitellata	What type of annelids are very different from others?
Many polychaetes have a muscular pharynx that can be everted 	What does 'everted' mean?
However, in members of the tube-dwelling family Siboglinidae the gut is blocked by a swollen lining that houses symbiotic bacteria, which can make up 15% of the worms' total weight	What type of annelids are tube-dwelling?
Annelids with blood vessels use metanephridia to remove soluble waste products, while those without use protonephridia	What do metanephridia remove?
It is thought that annelids were originally animals with two separate sexes, which released ova and sperm into the water via their nephridia	How many sexes of annelids were there originally?
However, the lifecycles of most living polychaetes, which are almost all marine animals, are unknown, and only about 25% of the 300+ species whose lifecycles are known follow this pattern	How many species of polychaetes have known lifecycles?
While most polychaetes remain of one sex all their lives, a significant percentage of species are full hermaphrodites or change sex during their lives	What do some non-single-sex polychaetes do?
Most mature clitellates are full hermaphrodites, although in a few leech species younger adults function as males and become female at maturity	What annelid group includes leeches and earthworms?
Charles Darwin's book The Formation of Vegetable Mould through the Action of Worms presented the first scientific analysis of earthworms' contributions to soil fertility	Who published a book about worms in 1881?
In the glaciated areas of North America, for example, almost all native earthworms are thought to have been killed by the glaciers and the worms currently found in those areas are all introduced from other areas, primarily from Europe, and, more recently, from Asia	Where were native earthworms killed by glaciers?
The rear end of the Palolo worm, a marine polychaete that tunnels through coral, detaches in order to spawn at the surface, and the people of Samoa regard these spawning modules as a delicacy	What type of annelid tunnels through coral?
Accounts of the use of leeches for the medically dubious practise of blood-letting have come from China around 30 AD, India around 200 AD, ancient Rome around 50 AD and later throughout Europe	When did leeches begin being used for blood-letting?
The small shelly fossil Cloudina, from 549 to 542 million years ago, has been classified by some authors as an annelid, but by others as a cnidarian (i	When did Cloudina exist?
The earliest good evidence for oligochaetes occurs in the Tertiary period, which began 65 million years ago, and it has been suggested that these animals evolved around the same time as flowering plants in the early Cretaceous, from 130 to 90 million years ago	When did the Tertiary period begin?
Traditionally the annelids have been divided into two major groups, the polychaetes and clitellates	What two groups are annelids traditionally divided among?
In 2007 Torsten Struck and colleagues compared 3 genes in 81 taxa, of which 9 were outgroups, in other words not considered closely related to annelids but included to give an indication of where the organisms under study are placed on the larger tree of life	Who compared annelid genes in 2007?
3	How many annelid genes did Torsten Struck first compare?
3	How many annelid genes did Torsten Struck first discover?
In addition to re-writing the classification of annelids and 3 previously independent phyla, the molecular phylogenetics analyses undermine the emphasis that decades of previous writings placed on the importance of segmentation in the classification of invertebrates	How many previously-separate phyla did the 2007 study reclassify?
3	How many previously-separate phyla did the 1837 study reclassify?
Annelids are members of the protostomes, one of the two major superphyla of bilaterian animals – the other is the deuterostomes, which includes vertebrates	What superphylum are annelids in?
"The ""Lophotrochozoa"" hypothesis is also supported by the fact that many phyla within this group, including annelids, molluscs, nemerteans and flatworms, follow a similar pattern in the fertilized egg's development"	Which Lophotrochozoa phyla have similar egg development?
The concept of God as described by theologians commonly includes the attributes of omniscience , omnipotence , omnipresence , omnibenevolence , divine simplicity, and eternal and necessary existence	What does it mean to say that God is omnipotent?
In theism, God is the creator and sustainer of the universe, while in deism, God is the creator, but not the sustainer, of the universe	In what belief is God the creator and sustainer of the universe?
"In the Hebrew Bible and Judaism, ""He Who Is"", ""I Am that I Am"", and the tetragrammaton YHWH are used as names of God, while Yahweh and Jehovah are sometimes used in Christianity as vocalizations of YHWH"	What are vocalizations of the name of God, YHWH?
The English word itself is derived from the Proto-Germanic * ǥuđan	Where is the English word God derived from?
"In the English language, the capitalized form of God continues to represent a distinction between monotheistic ""God"" and ""gods"" in polytheism"	What differentiates God from gods?
The Abrahamic conceptions of God include the monotheistic definition of God in Judaism, the trinitarian view of Christians, and the Islamic concept of God	What type of view do Christians take on God?
""" Muslims repudiate the Christian doctrine of the Trinity and divinity of Jesus, comparing it to polytheism"	What do Muslims believe that Trinitism too closely resembles?
Catholic theology holds that God is infinitely simple and is not involuntarily subject to time	What is the basis behind Catholic theology?
Deism holds that God is wholly transcendent: God exists, but does not intervene in the world beyond what was necessary to create it	What is a deistic view of God?
Pantheism holds that God is the universe and the universe is God, whereas Panentheism holds that God contains, but is not identical to, the Universe	What is Pantheism?
Some non-theists avoid the concept of God, whilst accepting that it is significant to many; other non-theists understand God as a symbol of human values and aspirations	What do some non-theists view God as?
""" Carl Sagan argued that the doctrine of a Creator of the Universe was difficult to prove or disprove and that the only conceivable scientific discovery that could disprove the existence of a Creator would be the discovery that the universe is infinitely old"	What did Sagan argue was the only was to prove the existence of God?
Stephen Hawking and co-author Leonard Mlodinow state in their book, The Grand Design, that it is reasonable to ask who or what created the universe, but if the answer is God, then the question has merely been deflected to that of who created God	"What does Stephen Hawking and Leonard Mlodinow pose as a better question that ""Is there a God""?"
Pascal Boyer argues that while there is a wide array of supernatural concepts found around the world, in general, supernatural beings tend to behave much like people	How does Pascal Boyer believe that gods and other supernatural beings behave?
In small groups, morality can be enforced by social forces such as gossip or reputation	What are ways that small social groups can force morality?
"Anselm's approach was to define God as, ""that than which nothing greater can be conceived"""	How did St. Anselm define the existence of God?
Richard Dawkins interprets various findings not only as a lack of evidence for the material existence of such a God but extensive evidence to the contrary	How does Dawkins interpret evidence for or against the existence of God?
According to the Omnipotence paradox or 'Paradox of the Stone', can God create a stone so heavy that he cannot lift it	What is the Omnipotence paradox?
For example, attributes of God in Christianity, attributes of God in Islam, and the Thirteen Attributes of Mercy in Judaism share certain similarities arising from their common roots	What do religions share across their belief structures?
In most monotheistic religions, God has no counterpart with which to relate sexually	How is sex by God handled in a monotheistic religion?
Muslims believe that the purpose of existence is to worship God	What is a muslims life purpose?
One view is taken by exclusivists, who believe they are the chosen people or have exclusive access to absolute truth, generally through revelation or encounter with the Divine, which adherents of other religions do not	Who believe they are the one and only chosen few?
Many medieval philosophers developed arguments for the existence of God, while attempting to comprehend the precise implications of God's attributes	Who posited the existence of God?
"The theist response has been either to contend, as does Alvin Plantinga, that faith is ""properly basic"", or to take, as does Richard Swinburne, the evidentialist position"	How does Alvin Plantinga describe faith?
On 16 September 2001, at Camp David, President George W	When did George W. Bush first say 'war on terrorism'?
"President Barack Obama has rarely used the term, but in his inaugural address on 20 January 2009, he stated ""Our nation is at war, against a far-reaching network of violence and hatred"	What did Obama say the US is at war with, in 2009?
"Because the actions involved in the ""war on terrorism"" are diffuse, and the criteria for inclusion are unclear, political theorist Richard Jackson has argued that ""the 'war on terrorism' therefore, is simultaneously a set of actual practices—wars, covert operations, agencies, and institutions—and an accompanying series of assumptions, beliefs, justifications, and narratives—it is an entire language or discourse"	Who said the 'war on terrorism' is 'an entire language of discourse'?
The origins of al-Qaeda can be traced to the Soviet war in Afghanistan 	Which war gave birth to al-Qaeda?
On 7 August 1998, al-Qaeda struck the U	When did al-Qaeda attack the US embassy in Kenya?
On the morning of 11 September 2001, 19 men affiliated with al-Qaeda hijacked four airliners all bound for California	How many al-Qaeda operatives hijacked planes on 9/11?
"The Authorization for Use of Military Force Against Terrorists or ""AUMF"" was made law on 14 September 2001, to authorize the use of United States Armed Forces against those responsible for the attacks on 11 September 2001"	What law was signed on Sep 14, 2001?
Subsequently, in October 2001, U	When did the US invade Afghanistan?
The Taliban regrouped in western Pakistan and began to unleash an insurgent-style offensive against Coalition forces in late 2002	Where did the Taliban regroup in 2002?
In January 2002, the United States Special Operations Command, Pacific deployed to the Philippines to advise and assist the Armed Forces of the Philippines in combating Filipino Islamist groups	Where did the USSOC Pacific deploy to in Jan 2002?
Special Forces killed two men and wounded and captured two others near the Somali village of Baarawe	How many people were killed by US Special Forces on Sep 14, 2009?
The conflict in northern Mali began in January 2012 with radical Islamists advancing into northern Mali	When did a Mali conflict begin?
Following the ceasefire agreement that suspended hostilities in the 1991 Gulf War, the United States and its allies instituted and began patrolling Iraqi no-fly zones, to protect Iraq's Kurdish and Shi'a Arab population—both of which suffered attacks from the Hussein regime before and after the Gulf War—in Iraq's northern and southern regions, respectively	When did the first Gulf War begin?
The first ground attack came at the Battle of Umm Qasr on 21 March 2003 when a combined force of British, American and Polish forces seized control of the port city of Umm Qasr	When was the first ground attack in the post-9/11 Iraq war?
In a major split in the ranks of Al Qaeda's organization, the Iraqi franchise, known as Al Qaeda in Iraq covertly invaded Syria and the Levant and began participating in the ongoing Syrian Civil War, gaining enough support and strength to re-invade Iraq's western provinces under the name of the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant , taking over much of the country in a blitzkrieg-like action and combining the Iraq insurgency and Syrian Civil War into a single conflict	Which civil war did the Iraq branch of Al Qaeda begin fighting in?
The Obama administration began to reengage in Iraq with a series of airstrikes aimed at ISIS beginning on 10 August 2014	When did Obama launch airstrikes on ISIS?
Following the 11 September 2001 attacks, former President of Pakistan Pervez Musharraf sided with the U	Which Pakistan president supported the US attacking the Taliban?
On 12 January 2002, Musharraf gave a speech against Islamic extremism	When did Musharraf give an anti-Islamism speech?
In 2002, the Musharraf-led government took a firm stand against the jihadi organizations and groups promoting extremism, and arrested Maulana Masood Azhar, head of the Jaish-e-Mohammed, and Hafiz Muhammad Saeed, chief of the Lashkar-e-Taiba, and took dozens of activists into custody	When did Musharraf arrest Maulana Masood Azhar?
The use of drones by the Central Intelligence Agency in Pakistan to carry out operations associated with the Global War on Terror sparks debate over sovereignty and the laws of war	What controversial technology did the US use in Pakistan?
In a 'Letter to American People' written by Osama bin Laden in 2002, he stated that one of the reasons he was fighting America is because of its support of India on the Kashmir issue	Who wrote 'Letter to American People' in 2002?
Drone strike reportedly killed Ilyas Kashmiri, who was the chief of Harkat-ul-Jihad al-Islami, a Kashmiri militant group associated with Al-Qaeda	Who did a US drone kill in Sep 2009?
"On 22 November 2002, the member states of the Euro-Atlantic Partnership Council decided on a Partnership Action Plan against Terrorism, which explicitly states, ""EAPC States are committed to the protection and promotion of fundamental freedoms and human rights, as well as the rule of law, in combating terrorism"	Who declared the Partnership Action Plan against Terrorism?
"Even so, many of the ""coalition of the willing"" countries that unconditionally supported the U"	What were the countries who supported the US's post-9/11 invasions called?
The British 16th Air Assault Brigade formed the core of the force in southern Afghanistan, along with troops and helicopters from Australia, Canada and the Netherlands	What was the primary fighting force in southern Afghanistan?
A new cabinet-level agency called the United States Department of Homeland Security was created in November 2002 to lead and coordinate the largest reorganization of the U	What new agency did Bush create after 9/11?
The USA PATRIOT Act of October 2001 dramatically reduces restrictions on law enforcement agencies' ability to search telephone, e-mail communications, medical, financial, and other records; eases restrictions on foreign intelligence gathering within the United States; expands the Secretary of the Treasury's authority to regulate financial transactions, particularly those involving foreign individuals and entities; and broadens the discretion of law enforcement and immigration authorities in detaining and deporting immigrants suspected of terrorism-related acts	When was the Patriot Act passed?
On 30 July 2003, the American Civil Liberties Union filed the first legal challenge against Section 215 of the Patriot Act, claiming that it allows the FBI to violate a citizen's First Amendment rights, Fourth Amendment rights, and right to due process, by granting the government the right to search a person's business, bookstore, and library records in a terrorist investigation, without disclosing to the individual that records were being searched	When did the ACLU first challenge the Patriot Act?
In 2005, the UN Security Council adopted Resolution 1624 concerning incitement to commit acts of terrorism and the obligations of countries to comply with international human rights laws	What terrorism-related resolution did the UN Security Council adopt in 2005?
Criticism of the War on Terror addresses the issues, morality, efficiency, economics, and other questions surrounding the War on Terror and made against the phrase itself, calling it a misnomer	What phrase has been called a misnomer?
"Other critics, such as Francis Fukuyama, note that ""terrorism"" is not an enemy, but a tactic; calling it a ""war on terror"", obscures differences between conflicts such as anti-occupation insurgents and international mujahideen"	What flaw in the 'war on terror' name did Francis Fukuyama point out?
Labour runs a minority government in the Welsh Assembly under Carwyn Jones, is the largest opposition party in the Scottish Parliament and has twenty MEPs in the European Parliament, sitting in the Socialists and Democrats Group	Who runs the Welsh Assembly?
The Labour Party's origins lie in the late 19th century, when it became apparent that there was a need for a new political party to represent the interests and needs of the urban proletariat, a demographic which had increased in number and had recently been given franchise	About when did the Labour Parry start?
In 1899, a Doncaster member of the Amalgamated Society of Railway Servants, Thomas R	What year did Thomas R. Steels propose the single body union branch?
"After a debate, the 129 delegates passed Hardie's motion to establish ""a distinct Labour group in Parliament, who shall have their own whips, and agree upon their policy, which must embrace a readiness to cooperate with any party which for the time being may be engaged in promoting legislation in the direct interests of labour"	How many delegates passed the motion?
Support for the LRC was boosted by the 1901 Taff Vale Case, a dispute between strikers and a railway company that ended with the union being ordered to pay £23,000 damages for a strike	What boosted support in 1901?
One of the first acts of the new Liberal Government was to reverse the Taff Vale judgement	Who overturned the Taft Vale judgement?
The 1910 election saw 42 Labour MPs elected to the House of Commons, a significant victory since, a year before the election, the House of Lords had passed the Osborne judgment ruling that Trades Unions in the United Kingdom could no longer donate money to fund the election campaigns and wages of Labour MPs	How many MP were elected in the 1910 election?
The Communist Party of Great Britain was refused affiliation to the Labour Party between 1921 and 1923	WHen was the COmmunist party refused affiliation?
Thus, with the acquiescence of Asquith's Liberals, Ramsay MacDonald became the first ever Labour Prime Minister in January 1924, forming the first Labour government, despite Labour only having 191 MPs 	In what year did Ramsay MacDonald become the Labour PM?
The ensuing 1924 general election saw the publication, four days before polling day, of the Zinoviev letter, in which Moscow talked about a Communist revolution in Britain	When was the Zinoviev letter published?
On 24 August 1931 MacDonald submitted the resignation of his ministers and led a small number of his senior colleagues in forming the National Government together with the other parties	When did MacDonald submit the resignation of his ministers?
When referendums for Scottish and Welsh devolution were held in March 1979 Welsh devolution was rejected outright while the Scottish referendum returned a narrow majority in favour without reaching the required threshold of 40% support	In what year was the Scottish and Welsh devolution rejected?
Callaghan had been widely expected to call a general election in the autumn of 1978 when most opinion polls showed Labour to have a narrow lead	In what year was Labour shown to have a slight lead?
After its defeat in the 1979 general election the Labour Party underwent a period of internal rivalry between the left represented by Tony Benn, and the right represented by Denis Healey	When was the Labout party defeated?
Foot resigned and was replaced as leader by Neil Kinnock, with Roy Hattersley as his deputy	Who was Foot replaced by?
0% of the vote won the second largest number of seats 	How many seats did Labour win in 2010?
Between January and March 2008, the Labour Party received just over £3 million in donations and were £17 million in debt; compared to the Conservatives' £6 million in donations and £12 million in debt	How much in contributions did the Labour party get from January to Marrch 2008?
Labour improved its performance in 1987, gaining 20 seats and so reducing the Conservative majority from 143 to 102	How many more seats did LAbour get in 1987?
Major resisted Kinnock's calls for a general election throughout 1991	What year did Kinnock call for a general election?
Kinnock then resigned as leader and was replaced by John Smith	Who replaced Kinnock?
The Black Wednesday economic disaster in September 1992 left the Conservative government's reputation for monetary excellence in tatters, and by the end of that year Labour had a comfortable lead over the Tories in the opinion polls	WHen was Black Wednesday?
"""New Labour"" was first termed as an alternative branding for the Labour Party, dating from a conference slogan first used by the Labour Party in 1994, which was later seen in a draft manifesto published by the party in 1996, called New Labour, New Life For Britain"	What was the other name for the Labout Party?
Bush in supporting the Iraq War, which caused him to lose much of his political support	Why did Blair side with Bush?
Blair announced in September 2006 that he would quit as leader within the year, though he had been under pressure to quit earlier than May 2007 in order to get a new leader in place before the May elections which were expected to be disastrous for Labour	When did Blair announce he was quitting?
Clement Attlee's proved one of the most radical British governments of the 20th century, enacting Keynesian economic policies, presiding over a policy of nationalising major industries and utilities including the Bank of England, coal mining, the steel industry, electricity, gas, and inland transport 	Whose government was the least radical of the 20th century?
Labour went on to win the 1950 general election, but with a much reduced majority of five seats	In what year did Labour lose the general election?
Wilson's government was responsible for a number of sweeping social and educational reforms under the leadership of Home Secretary Roy Jenkins such as the abolishment of the death penalty in 1964, the legalisation of abortion and homosexuality in 1967 and the abolition of theatre censorship in 1968	When was abortion criminalized in Britain? 
After losing the 1970 general election, Labour returned to opposition, but retained Harold Wilson as Leader	What did Labour do after winning the 1970 general election?
Fear of advances by the nationalist parties, particularly in Scotland, led to the suppression of a report from Scottish Office economist Gavin McCrone that suggested that an independent Scotland would be 'chronically in surplus'	What led to the promotion of a report from the Scottish Office?
Harriet Harman became the Leader of the Opposition and acting Leader of the Labour Party following the resignation of Gordon Brown on 11 May 2010, pending a leadership election subsequently won by Ed Miliband	When did Ed Miliband resign?
The party's performance held up in local elections in 2012 with Labour consolidating its position in the North and Midlands, while also regaining some ground in Southern England	When did the party's performance tank in local elections?
"On 1 March 2014, at a special conference the party reformed internal Labour election procedures, including replacing the electoral college system for selecting new leaders with a ""one member, one vote"" system following the recommendation of a review by former general-secretary Ray Collins"	Where did the party reform Conservative election procedures?
The 2015 General Election resulted in a net loss of seats throughout Great Britain, with Labour representation falling to 232 seats in the House of Commons	What resulted in a net gain of seats?
The Labour Party is considered to be left of centre	What party is considered right of centre?
From the late-1980s onwards, the party adopted free market policies, leading many observers to describe the Labour Party as social democratic or the Third Way, rather than democratic socialist	What did the party adopt before the 1980s?
"Members on the hard left were often disparaged as the ""loony left,"" particularly in the popular media"	Who was referred to as the loony right?
Labour has long been identified with red, a political colour traditionally affiliated with socialism and the labour movement	What party is associated with blue?
The party's decision-making bodies on a national level formally include the National Executive Committee , Labour Party Conference and National Policy Forum —although in practice the Parliamentary leadership has the final say on policy	What are the party's decision making bodies on a local level?
For many years Labour held to a policy of not allowing residents of Northern Ireland to apply for membership, instead supporting the Social Democratic and Labour Party which informally takes the Labour whip in the House of Commons	What party held a policy of always allowing people from Northern Ireland to apply for membership?
As it was founded by the unions to represent the interests of working-class people, Labour's link with the unions has always been a defining characteristic of the party	What was founded to oppose the interests of working-class people?
The party was a member of the Labour and Socialist International between 1923 and 1940	What was the party a member of before 1923?
Estonia ), officially the Republic of Estonia , is a country in the Baltic region of Northern Europe	What is the official name for Estonia?
After centuries of Danish, Swedish and German rule the native Estonians started to yearn for independence during the period of national awakening while being governed by the Russian Empire	Who was in control of Estonia for most of the country's history?
A developed country with an advanced, high-income economy and high living standards, Estonia ranks very high in the Human Development Index, and performs favourably in measurements of economic freedom, civil liberties, education, and press freedom 	What features describe Estonia as a developed nation?
In the first centuries AD, political and administrative subdivisions began to emerge in Estonia	When did political subgroups begin to appear in Estonia?
The Oeselians or Osilians were a historical subdivision of Estonians inhabiting Saaremaa , an Estonian island in the Baltic Sea	Which subdivision of Estonians lived in Saaremaa?
Perhaps the most famous raid by Oeselian pirates occurred in 1187, with the attack on the Swedish town of Sigtuna by Finnic raiders from Couronia and Oesel	What year did the Oeselian pirates carry out a famous raid?
The superior god of Oeselians as described by Henry of Latvia was called Tharapita	What god did the Oeselians worship?
The capital of Danish Estonia was Reval , founded at the place of Lyndanisse after the invasion of 1219	What was the capital of Danish Estonia?
George's Night 23 April 1343, the indigenous Estonian population in the Duchy of Estonia, the Bishopric of Ösel-Wiek and the insular territories of the State of the Teutonic Order tried to rid themselves of the Danish and German rulers and landlords, who had conquered the country in the 13th century during the Livonian crusade, and to eradicate the non-indigenous Christian religion	What is the date of St. George's Night?
From 1228, after of the Livonian Crusade, through the 1560s, Estonia was part of Terra Mariana, established on 2 February 1207 as a principality of the Holy Roman Empire and proclaimed by Pope Innocent III in 1215 as subject to the Holy See	When was Terra Mariana established?
After the decline of the Teutonic Order following its defeat in the Battle of Grunwald in 1410, and the defeat of the Livonian Order in the Battle of Swienta on 1 September 1435, the Livonian Confederation Agreement was signed on 4 December 1435	When did the Battle of Grunwald take place?
The Reformation in Europe officially began in 1517 with Martin Luther and his 95 Theses	When did the The Reformation in Europe start?
As a result of the abolition of serfdom and the availability of education to the native Estonian-speaking population, an active Estonian nationalist movement developed in the 19th century	What form of servitude was eliminated?
"On 14 June, while the world's attention was focused on the fall of Paris to Nazi Germany a day earlier, the Soviet military blockade on Estonia went into effect, two Soviet bombers downed the Finnish passenger aeroplane ""Kaleva"" flying from Tallinn to Helsinki carrying three diplomatic pouches from the US delegations in Tallinn, Riga and Helsinki"	What capital of France was lost to the Nazi Germans?
Most of the Estonian Defence Forces surrendered according to the orders of the Estonian government, believing that resistance was useless and were disarmed by the Red Army	Who commanded the defense of the Estonia to surrender?
On 6 August 1940, Estonia was annexed by the Soviet Union as the Estonian SSR	What date was Estonia annexed by the Soviets?
After Germany invaded the Soviet Union on 22 June 1941, the Wehrmacht crossed the Estonian southern border on 7 July	What date did the Germans invade the Soviets?
Although initially the Germans were welcomed by most Estonians as liberators from the USSR and its oppressions, and hopes were raised for the restoration of the country's independence, it was soon realised that the Nazis were but another occupying power	What did the majority of Estonians view the Germans as?
Some Estonians, unwilling to side directly with the Nazis, joined the Finnish Army to fight against the Soviet Union	Who did some Estonians join as an alternative to the Germans?
In the face of the country being re-occupied by the Red Army, tens of thousands of Estonians chose to either retreat with the Germans or flee to Finland or Sweden where they sought refuge in other western countries, often by refugee ships such as the SS Walnut	How many Estonians chose to retreat or flee when in anticipation of another Soviet invasion?
Half the deported perished, and the other half were not allowed to return until the early 1960s 	What percentage of Estonians died after deporation?
Militarization was another aspect of the Soviet state	What political strategy only allowed major parts of of Estonia to be accessed by the Soviets?
, UK, France, Italy and the majority of other Western countries considered the annexation of Estonia by the USSR illegal	What did most Western countries view as an illegal claim by the USSR?
"In 1989, during the ""Singing Revolution"", in a landmark demonstration for more independence, more than two million people formed a human chain stretching through Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia, called the Baltic Way"	What year did the Singing Revolution occur?
Estonia's land border with Latvia runs 267 kilometers; the Russian border runs 290 kilometers	What is the length of the border that Estonia shares with Lativa?
Estonia lies on the eastern shores of the Baltic Sea immediately across the Gulf of Finland from Finland on the level northwestern part of the rising East European platform between 57	What body of water borders Estonia?
Estonia is situated in the northern part of the temperate climate zone and in the transition zone between maritime and continental climate	What section of the temperate climate zone does Estonia reside?
A maakond is the biggest administrative subdivision	What is the largest administrative subdivision in Estonia?
Estonia is a parliamentary representative democratic republic in which the Prime Minister of Estonia is the head of government and which includes a multi-party system	Who is the leader of Estonia's government?
The Parliament of Estonia or the legislative branch is elected by people for a four-year term by proportional representation	What position do the citizens of Estonia elect for a four year term?
The Riigikogu elects and appoints several high officials of the state, including the President of the Republic	Who chooses high state officials of Estonia?
The Government of Estonia or the executive branch is formed by the Prime Minister of Estonia, nominated by the president and approved by the parliament	Who establishes the executive branch of Estonia?
The Prime Minister has the right to appoint a maximum of three such ministers, as the limit of ministers in one government is fifteen	What is the most amount of ministers that a Prime Minister can assign?
Internet voting is used in elections in Estonia	What digital technology as Estonia been advacning?
According to the Constitution of Estonia the supreme power of the state is vested in the people	What document declares supreme power for the people?
Estonia was a member of the League of Nations from 22 September 1921, has been a member of the United Nations since 17 September 1991, and of NATO since 29 March 2004, as well as the European Union since 1 May 2004	What date did Estonia join the League of Nations?
Since regaining independence, Estonia has pursued a foreign policy of close co-operation with its Western European partners	What type of foreign policy has Estonia sought after getting their independence?
Since the early 1990s, Estonia is involved in active trilateral Baltic states co-operation with Latvia and Lithuania, and Nordic-Baltic co-operation with the Nordic countries	Which Baltic countries have cooperated with Estonia since the early 1990s?
An important element in Estonia's post-independence reorientation has been closer ties with the Nordic countries, especially Finland and Sweden	What has been a major factor in the restoration of Estonia after winning their independence?
In 2005, Estonia joined the European Union's Nordic Battle Group	When did Estonia join the European Union's Nordic Battle Group?
The military of Estonia is based upon the Estonian Defence Forces , which is the name of the unified armed forces of the republic with Maavägi , Merevägi , Õhuvägi and a paramilitary national guard organisation Kaitseliit 	What name describes the combined body of all Estonia military?
Estonia co-operates with Latvia and Lithuania in several trilateral Baltic defence co-operation initiatives, including Baltic Battalion , Baltic Naval Squadron , Baltic Air Surveillance Network and joint military educational institutions such as the Baltic Defence College in Tartu	Which countries aid Estonia in trilateral defense strategies?
The Ministry of Defence and the Defence Forces have been working on a cyberwarfare and defence formation for some years now	Who have been jointly working on protection against cyberwarfare?
As a member of the European Union, Estonia is considered a high-income economy by the World Bank	What institution views the economy of Estonia as high income?
Estonia produces about 75% of its consumed electricity	How much of consumed electricity does Estonia produce by itself?
Because of the global economic recession that began in 2007, the GDP of Estonia decreased by 1	When did the global economic recession start?
Since re-establishing independence, Estonia has styled itself as the gateway between East and West and aggressively pursued economic reform and integration with the West	What Estonia view itself as after winning independence?
In 1999, Estonia experienced its worst year economically since it regained independence in 1991, largely because of the impact of the 1998 Russian financial crisis	What was the worst economic year for Estonia after winning independence?
Estonia is a dependent country in the terms of energy and energy production	What lacking resource does Estonia depend on other countries for?
Estonia has had a market economy since the end of the 1990s and one of the highest per capita income levels in Eastern Europe	In what region does Estonia hold one of the highest per capita income levels?
In 2007, however, a large current account deficit and rising inflation put pressure on Estonia's currency, which was pegged to the Euro, highlighting the need for growth in export-generating industries	When did a huge deficit and rising inflation place pressure on Estonia's currency?
Between 2007 and 2013, Estonia receives 53	What year was the start of investments from the European Union Structural Funds?
Between 1945 and 1989, the share of ethnic Estonians in the population resident within the currently defined boundaries of Estonia dropped to 61%, caused primarily by the Soviet programme promoting mass immigration of urban industrial workers from Russia, Ukraine, and Belarus, as well as by wartime emigration and Joseph Stalin's mass deportations and executions	What period did the amount of ethnic Estonians drop by 61%?
At the end of the 1980s, Estonians perceived their demographic change as a national catastrophe	How did Estonians view the demographic change of less ethnic Estonians?
Thirteen of Estonia's 15 counties are over 80% ethnic Estonian, the most homogeneous being Hiiumaa, where Estonians account for 98	What number of Estonia's counties are over 80% ethnic Estonian?
The Estonian Cultural Autonomy law that was passed in 1925 was unique in Europe at that time	What year was the Estonian Cultural Autonomy law established?
"The 2008 United Nations Human Rights Council report called ""extremely credible"" the description of the citizenship policy of Estonia as ""discriminatory"""	"What document labeled the the description of the citizenship policy of Estonia as ""discriminatory""? "
Estonia's constitution guarantees freedom of religion, separation of church and state, and individual rights to privacy of belief and religion	What guarantees freedom of religion for Estonian citizens?
Another major group, inhabitants who follow Eastern Orthodox Christianity, practised chiefly by the Russian minority, and the Russian Orthodox Church is the second largest denomination with 150,000 members	What is the major group that believes in Eastern Orthodox Christianity?
Although the Estonian and Germanic languages are of very different origins, one can identify many similar words in Estonian and German, for example	What language does Estonian share similar words with?
Academic higher education in Estonia is divided into three levels: bachelor's, master's, and doctoral studies	What are the three levels of higher learning in Estonia?
The Estonian Academy of Sciences is the national academy of science	What is the main science institution in Estonia?
Today, Estonian society encourages liberty and liberalism, with popular commitment to the ideals of the limited government, discouraging centralised power and corruption	What virtues does modern Estonian society promote?
The Estonian Academy of Arts is providing higher education in art, design, architecture, media, art history and conservation while Viljandi Culture Academy of University of Tartu has an approach to popularise native culture through such curricula as native construction, native blacksmithing, native textile design, traditional handicraft and traditional music, but also jazz and church music	What institute provides education in art, design, and media?
The tradition of Estonian Song Festivals started at the height of the Estonian national awakening in 1869	What name describes the Estonian Song Festivals?
"Estonia won the Eurovision Song Contest in 2001 with the song ""Everybody"" performed by Tanel Padar and Dave Benton"	What year did Estonia win the Eurovision Song Contest?
The domination of Estonia after the Northern Crusades, from the 13th century to 1918 by Germany, Sweden, and Russia resulted in few early written literary works in the Estonian language	What event preceded the domination of Estonia by different European powers?
Oskar Luts was the most prominent prose writer of the early Estonian literature, who is still widely read today, especially his lyrical school novel Kevade 	Who was the most famous prose writer in early Estonian history?
Worth mentioning is especially the architectural ensemble that makes out the medieval old town of Tallinn, which is on the UNESCO World Heritage List	Which medieval town is on the UNESCO World Heritage List?
Historically, the cuisine of Estonia has been heavily dependent on seasons and simple peasant food, which today is influenced by many countries	What factors have influenced Estonian food for most of their history?
Sport plays an important role in Estonian culture	What physical activity plays a major part in Estonian society?
Estonia national basketball team previously participated in 1936 Summer Olympics, appeared in EuroBasket four times	What year did Estonia's basketball team first compete in the Summer Olympics
Approximately half of Alaska's residents live within the Anchorage metropolitan area	How many of Alaska's residents reside in the Anchorage area?
", often called ""the Lower 48"""	What are the contiguous states sometimes called?
The region is dominated by the Alexander Archipelago as well as the Tongass National Forest, the largest national forest in the United States	Which forest is the largest national forest in the US?
The North Slope is mostly tundra peppered with small villages	Which area contains the Prudhoe Bay Oil Field?
With its myriad islands, Alaska has nearly 34,000 miles of tidal shoreline	How much tidal shoreline does Alaska have in miles?
According to an October 1998 report by the United States Bureau of Land Management, approximately 65% of Alaska is owned and managed by the U	What percentage of Alaska is maintained by the US federal government?
Of the remaining land area, the state of Alaska owns 101 million acres , its entitlement under the Alaska Statehood Act	How many acres of its land does the state of Alaska own?
Regional Native corporation Doyon, Limited often promotes itself as the largest private landowner in Alaska in advertisements and other communications	Which group claims it is Alaska's largest private land owner?
Juneau averages over 50 in of precipitation a year, and Ketchikan averages over 150 in 	How much precipitation does Juno receive each year?
The climate of Western Alaska is determined in large part by the Bering Sea and the Gulf of Alaska	What two bodies of water influene the climate in Western Alaska?
The Tsimshian people came to Alaska from British Columbia in 1887, when President Grover Cleveland, and later the U	Which President allowed Tsimshian settlers to inhabit Annette Island?
The Gwich'in people of the northern Interior region are Athabaskan and primarily known today for their dependence on the caribou within the much-contested Arctic National Wildlife Refuge	Which indigenous group is controversially known for hunting caribou on protected land?
Some researchers believe that the first Russian settlement in Alaska was established in the 17th century	During what time period do some researchers believe Russians settled in Alaska?
Starting in the 1890s and stretching in some places to the early 1910s, gold rushes in Alaska and the nearby Yukon Territory brought thousands of miners and settlers to Alaska	What event brought thousands of people to Alaska in the 1890s to early 1910s?
Statehood was approved by Congress on July 7, 1958	On what day was Alaskan Statehood finally approved by Congress?
On March 27, 1964, the massive Good Friday earthquake killed 133 people and destroyed several villages and portions of large coastal communities, mainly by the resultant tsunamis and landslides	What major event happened in Alaska on March 27, 1964 killing 133 people?
The Alaska Native Language Center at the University of Alaska Fairbanks claims that at least 20 Alaskan native languages exist and there are also some languages with different dialects	At least how many native Alaskan languages exist, according to the Alaska Native Language Center?
According to statistics collected by the Association of Religion Data Archives from 2010, about 34% of Alaska residents were members of religious congregations	According to the Association of Religion Data in 2010, what percentage of Alaskans are members of a relgious congregation?
In 1795, the First Russian Orthodox Church was established in Kodiak	Which church was established in Kodiak in 1795?
Its per capita personal income for 2007 was $40,042, ranking 15th in the nation	What was the per capita personal income in Alaska in 2007?
Military bases are a significant component of the economy in the Fairbanks North Star, Anchorage and Kodiak Island boroughs, as well as Kodiak	In which Alaskan areas are military bases prevalent as an important part of the local economy?
Major oil and gas reserves were found in the Alaska North Slope and Cook Inlet basins, but according to the Energy Information Administration, by February 2014 Alaska had fallen to fourth place in the nation in crude oil production after Texas, North Dakota, and California	What other states rank higher than Alaska in crude oil production?
Large swaths of the Alaskan coastline offer wind and geothermal energy potential as well	Alaska's coastline also has potential in which two environmentally friendly energy types?
The cost of a gallon of gas in urban Alaska today is usually 30–60¢ higher than the national average; prices in rural areas are generally significantly higher but vary widely depending on transportation costs, seasonal usage peaks, nearby petroleum development infrastructure and many other factors	How much does gas cost in Alaska, in comparison to the national average?
The Alaska Permanent Fund is a constitutionally authorized appropriation of oil revenues, established by voters in 1976 to manage a surplus in state petroleum revenues from oil, largely in anticipation of the recently constructed Trans-Alaska Pipeline System	What is the Alaska Permanent Fund?
The Alaska Constitution was written so as to discourage dedicating state funds for a particular purpose	Was Alaska's Constitution written to encourage or discourage state funds being used for a particular purpose?
To qualify for the Permanent Fund Dividend, one must have lived in the state for a minimum of 12 months, maintain constant residency subject to allowable absences, and not be subject to court judgments or criminal convictions which fall under various disqualifying classifications or may subject the payment amount to civil garnishment	How long must an Alaskan have lived in the state in order to receive a Permanent Fund Dividend?
Delta-area crops consist predominately of barley and hay	Which crops are produced in the Delta-area?
"Most food in Alaska is transported into the state from ""Outside"", and shipping costs make food in the cities relatively expensive"	What causes food in Alaskan cities to be relatively expensive?
The state capital, Juneau, is not accessible by road, only a car ferry, which has spurred several debates over the decades about moving the capital to a city on the road system, or building a road connection from Haines	Why is there a debate about moving the capital of Alaska to another town?
Built around 1915, the Alaska Railroad played a key role in the development of Alaska through the 20th century	What year was the Alaska Railroad built?
The Alaska Railroad was one of the last railroads in North America to use cabooses in regular service and still uses them on some gravel trains	The ARR was one of the last railroads in the US to use what?
Alaska's well-developed state-owned ferry system serves the cities of southeast, the Gulf Coast and the Alaska Peninsula	What is the name of Alaska's ferry system?
Anchorage and, to a lesser extent Fairbanks, is served by many major airlines	Which two cities are served by major airlines?
Regular flights to most villages and towns within the state that are commercially viable are challenging to provide, so they are heavily subsidized by the federal government through the Essential Air Service program	Which service allows government to subsidise regular air travel in Alaska?
The bulk of remaining commercial flight offerings come from small regional commuter airlines such as Ravn Alaska, PenAir, and Frontier Flying Service	What are the names of a few regional Alaskan airlines?
Perhaps the most quintessentially Alaskan plane is the bush seaplane	Which plane is considered quintessentially Alaskan?
Another Alaskan transportation method is the dogsled	Which Alaskan way of transport is more for sport than for transportation?
Alaska's internet and other data transport systems are provided largely through the two major telecommunications companies: GCI and Alaska Communications	Which two companies provide internet and data transport to Alaska?
To finance state government operations, Alaska depends primarily on petroleum revenues and federal subsidies	How does Alaska finance its state government operations?
Alaska regularly supports Republicans in presidential elections and has done so since statehood	Which political party does Alaska generally support?
The Alaska Bush, central Juneau, midtown and downtown Anchorage, and the areas surrounding the University of Alaska Fairbanks campus and Ester have been strongholds of the Democratic Party	The areas surrounding which university has been historically a Democratic stronghold?
The state is divided into 34 recording districts which are centrally administered under a State Recorder	Into how many recording districts is Alaska divided?
As reflected in the 2010 United States Census, Alaska has a total of 355 incorporated cities and census-designated places 	What are CDPs?
Approximately three-quarters of that figure were people who live in urban and suburban neighborhoods on the outskirts of the city limits of Ketchikan, Kodiak, Palmer and Wasilla	What four areas have not been established as CDPs by the Census Bureau?
They have a long and storied history, but were not an official organization until 1941	In what year did Alaskan State Troopers become an official organization?
The most prominent orchestra in Alaska is the Anchorage Symphony Orchestra, though the Fairbanks Symphony Orchestra and Juneau Symphony are also notable	What is Alaska's most prominent orchestra?
One of the most prominent movies filmed in Alaska is MGM's Eskimo/Mala The Magnificent, starring Alaska Native Ray Mala	Which Alaskan native starred in a film also set in Alaska?
Popper is known for his rejection of the classical inductivist views on the scientific method, in favour of empirical falsification: A theory in the empirical sciences can never be proven, but it can be falsified, meaning that it can and should be scrutinized by decisive experiments	Which classical views about the method of science did Popper reject?
Karl Popper was born in Vienna in 1902, to upper middle-class parents	In which city was Karl Popper born?
Popper left school at the age of 16 and attended lectures in mathematics, physics, philosophy, psychology and the history of music as a guest student at the University of Vienna	At which age did Popper first attend university?
Continuing to attend university as a guest student, he started an apprenticeship as cabinetmaker, which he completed as a journeyman	What trade did Popper enter as an apprentice?
In 1928, he earned a doctorate in psychology, under the supervision of Karl Bühler	Who supervised Popper's doctorate?
In 1937, Popper finally managed to get a position that allowed him to emigrate to New Zealand, where he became lecturer in philosophy at Canterbury University College of the University of New Zealand in Christchurch	Where did Popper move in 1937?
"Popper died of ""complications of cancer, pneumonia and kidney failure"" in Kenley at the age of 92 on 17 September 1994"	How old was Popper when he died?
Popper won many awards and honours in his field, including the Lippincott Award of the American Political Science Association, the Sonning Prize, the Otto Hahn Peace Medal of the United Nations Association of Germany in Berlin and fellowships in the Royal Society, British Academy, London School of Economics, King's College London, Darwin College, Cambridge, and Charles University, Prague	Which award did Popper receive from the American Political Science Association?
Other awards and recognition for Popper included the City of Vienna Prize for the Humanities , Karl Renner Prize , Austrian Decoration for Science and Art , Dr	In which year did Popper win the Karl Renner Prize?
Karl Popper's rejection of Marxism during his teenage years left a profound mark on his thought	What political philosophy that attracted Popper as a teenager had a profound influence on his thinking going forward?
The failure of democratic parties to prevent fascism from taking over Austrian politics in the 1920s and 1930s traumatised Popper	What political ideology dominated Austrian politics in the decades before the second world war?
Popper puzzled over the stark contrast between the non-scientific character of Freud and Adler's theories in the field of psychology and the revolution set off by Einstein's theory of relativity in physics in the early 20th century	Which two important psychologists did Popper view as advancing non-scientific theories?
This realisation had an important consequence when Popper later tackled the problem of demarcation in the philosophy of science, as it led him to posit that the strength of a scientific theory lies in its both being susceptible to falsification, and not actually being falsified by criticism made of it	According to Popper, a theory is scientific only is it is susceptible to what?
"Popper coined the term ""critical rationalism"" to describe his philosophy"	What term did Popper use for his philosophy?
Popper's account of the logical asymmetry between verification and falsifiability lies at the heart of his philosophy of science	Popper pointed out an important logical asymmetry between what two concepts?
In All Life is Problem Solving, Popper sought to explain the apparent progress of scientific knowledge – that is, how it is that our understanding of the universe seems to improve over time	Which of Popper's works addresses the improvement of scientific understanding of the world over time?
This process, error elimination , performs a similar function for science that natural selection performs for biological evolution	What process in science is like the process of natural selection in nature?
Among his contributions to philosophy is his claim to have solved the philosophical problem of induction	Popper's thoughts on falsification present a solution to the philosophical problem concerning what type of scientific reasoning?
Popper held that rationality is not restricted to the realm of empirical or scientific theories, but that it is merely a special case of the general method of criticism, the method of finding and eliminating contradictions in knowledge without ad-hoc-measures	Popper's rational approach opposes what technique sometimes used to remove contradictions in knowledge?
He thinks that no assumption can ever be or needs ever to be justified, so a lack of justification is not a justification for doubt	According to Popper, what is not grounds for doubt?
"In The Open Society and Its Enemies and The Poverty of Historicism, Popper developed a critique of historicism and a defence of the ""Open Society"""	Which of Popper's works criticized the idea that history has an inexorable developmental path?
Then came the semantic theory of truth formulated by the logician Alfred Tarski and published in 1933	Whose theory of truth did Popper read with intense interest in 1935?
"Although many philosophers have interpreted, and continue to interpret, Tarski's theory as a deflationary theory, Popper refers to it as a theory in which ""is true"" is replaced with ""corresponds to the facts"""	What term do philosophers give to the kind of theory Tarski proposed about truth?
"Upon this basis, along with that of the logical content of assertions , Popper went on to develop his important notion of verisimilitude or ""truthlikeness"""	What term does Popper use that roughly means verisimilitude?
Knowledge, for Popper, was objective, both in the sense that it is objectively true , and also in the sense that knowledge has an ontological status (i	What did Popper argue was objective and independent of its subject?
In the debate, both sides and even courts in their decisions have frequently invoked Popper's criterion of falsifiability 	Which of Popper's notions is often invoked in creation-evolution debates?
He said that evolution must, as the creationists say, work in a goal-directed way but disagreed with their view that it must necessarily be the hand of god that imposes these goals onto the stage of life	Along with some creationists, Popper believed that evolution must have what quality to its progress?
Instead, he formulated the spearhead model of evolution, a version of genetic pluralism	What is the name of Popper's model of evolution?
"Popper contrasts his views with the notion of the ""hopeful monster"" that has large phenotype mutations and calls it the ""hopeful behavioural monster"""	Which view of evolution emphasizing large changes in organisms' phenotypes does Popper oppose to his own?
"About the creation-evolution controversy, Popper wrote that he considered it ""a somewhat sensational clash between a brilliant scientific hypothesis concerning the history of the various species of animals and plants on earth, and an older metaphysical theory which, incidentally, happened to be part of an established religious belief"" with a footnote to the effect that "" agree with Professor C"	What controversy involving science did Popper believe was sensationalized because of its connection with religion?
"In an interview that Popper gave in 1969 with the condition that it shall be kept secret until after his death, he summarised his position on God as follows: ""I don't know whether God exists or not"	In which year did Popper give a secret interview concerning his views about God?
Popper played a vital role in establishing the philosophy of science as a vigorous, autonomous discipline within philosophy, through his own prolific and influential works, and also through his influence on his own contemporaries and students	What branch of philosophy did Popper advance the most?
While there is some dispute as to the matter of influence, Popper had a long-standing and close friendship with economist Friedrich Hayek, who was also brought to the London School of Economics from Vienna	Which other Austrian scholar and friend of Popper also worked near him at the London School of Economics?
It has been suggested that Popper's ideas are often mistaken for a hard logical account of truth because of the historical co-incidence of their appearing at the same time as logical positivism, the followers of which mistook his aims for their own	What other contemporaneous school of thought is often confused with Popper's own contributions?
The Quine-Duhem thesis argues that it's impossible to test a single hypothesis on its own, since each one comes as part of an environment of theories	What thesis says a scientific hypothesis is not testable in isolation from its system of theories?
"Popper claimed to have recognised already in the 1934 version of his Logic of Discovery a fact later stressed by Kuhn, ""that scientists necessarily develop their ideas within a definite theoretical framework"", and to that extent to have anticipated Kuhn's central point about ""normal science"""	Popper believed he had already discussed similar ideas to Kuhn's about scientific communities in what work?
Another objection is that it is not always possible to demonstrate falsehood definitively, especially if one is using statistical criteria to evaluate a null hypothesis	What kind of criteria frequently used in science complicates the definitiveness of some hypotheses' falsification?
"In a book called Science Versus Crime, Houck writes that Popper's falsificationism can be questioned logically: it is not clear how Popper would deal with a statement like ""for every metal, there is a temperature at which it will melt"	Which book by Houck points out logical flaws in Popper's falsificationism?
In 2004, philosopher and psychologist Michel ter Hark published a book, called Popper, Otto Selz and the rise of evolutionary epistemology, in which he claimed that Popper took some of his ideas from his tutor, the German psychologist Otto Selz	Which German psychologist and tutor of Popper may have originated some of Popper's ideas?
""" By applying Popper's account of scientific method, Gray's Straw Dogs states that this would have ""killed the theories of Darwin and Einstein at birth"	Which two prominent scientists advanced theories that John N. Gray claims would never have survived the scientific method Popper describes?
"Gray does not, however, give any indication of what available evidence these theories were at odds with, and his appeal to ""crucial support"" illustrates the very inductivist approach to science that Popper sought to show was logically illegitimate"	Gray's approach aligns with which approach that Popper himself considered untenable?
Popper held that it is the least likely, or most easily falsifiable, or simplest theory that explains known facts that one should rationally prefer	Which type of theory is most falsifiable?
In his early years Popper was impressed by Marxism, whether of Communists or socialists	Who instigated the 1919 riot that reshaped Popper's political views?
"A mandolin ; literally ""small mandola"") is a musical instrument in the lute family and is usually plucked with a plectrum or ""pick"""	What country did the mandolin originate from?
The round-back has a deep bottom, constructed of strips of wood, glued together into a bowl	What is the round-back mandolin made of? 
Much of mandolin development revolved around the soundboard 	What did most of the development of the mandolin revolve around?
Beside the introduction of the lute to Spain by the Moors, another important point of transfer of the lute from Arabian to European culture was Sicily, where it was brought either by Byzantine or later by Muslim musicians	Who introduced the lute to Spain?
There is confusion currently as to the name of the eldest Vinaccia luthier who first ran the shop	What is there currently confusion over? 
"The transition from the mandolino to the mandolin began around 1744 with the designing of the metal-string mandolin by the Vinaccia family, 3 brass strings and one of gut, using friction tuning pegs on a fingerboard that sat ""flush"" with the sound table"	What year was the beginning of the transition from mandolino to mandolin?
Beginning with the Paris Exposition of 1878, the instrument's popularity rebounded	When did the mandolin's poplarity rebound?
Even as the second wave of mandolin popularity declined in the early 20th century, new versions of the mandolin began to be used in new forms of music	When was the second decline of mandolin popularity?
Like any plucked instrument, mandolin notes decay to silence rather than sound out continuously as with a bowed note on a violin, and mandolin notes decay faster than larger stringed instruments like the guitar	What happens to mandolin notes when plucked? 
The Neapolitan style has an almond-shaped body resembling a bowl, constructed from curved strips of wood	What kind of style does the Neapolitan mandolin have?
Another family of bowlback mandolins came from Milan and Lombardy	Where did the Lombardic family of bowlback mandolins come from?
Samuel Adelstein described the Lombardi mandolin in 1893 as wider and shorter than the Neapolitan mandolin, with a shallower back and a shorter and wider neck, with six single strings to the regular mandolin's set of 4	Who described the Lombardi mandolin as wider and shorter than the Neoapolitan mandolin?
4	How many strings do the regular mandolin's have?
4	 How many strings do the non regular mandolin's have?
In his 1805 mandolin method, Anweisung die Mandoline von selbst zu erlernen nebst einigen Uebungsstucken von Bortolazzi, Bartolomeo Bortolazzi popularised the Cremonese mandolin, which had four single-strings and a fixed bridge, to which the strings were attached	Who popularised the Cremonese Mandolin?
At the very end of the 19th century, a new style, with a carved top and back construction inspired by violin family instruments began to supplant the European-style bowl-back instruments in the United States	When was a new sytle of carved top and back construction mandolins created?
These styles generally have either two f-shaped soundholes like a violin , or an oval sound hole directly under the strings	Where are the soundholes located?
Numerous modern mandolin makers build instruments that largely replicate the Gibson F-5 Artist models built in the early 1920s under the supervision of Gibson acoustician Lloyd Loar	What style of Gisbon Mandolin was largely replicated?
This is especially true of violin music, since the mandolin has the same tuning of the violin	What instrument does the mandolin share the same tuning of? 
Phil Skinner played a key role in 20th century development of the mandolin movement in Australia, and was awarded an MBE in 1979 for services to music and the community	Who played a key role Australian mandolin movement? 
The Sydney Mandolins have contributed greatly to the repertoire through commissioning over 200 works by Australian and International composers	Who is the director of the Sydney Mandolins?
In the early 20th century several mandolin orchestras were active in Belgium	What is an Etsudiantinas? 
Prior to the Golden Age of Mandolins, France had a history with the mandolin, with mandolinists playing in Paris until the Napoleonic Wars	Prior to what age did France have a history with the mandolin?
On the island of Crete, along with the lyra and the laouto , the mandolin is one of the main instruments used in Cretan Music	What Island is the mandolin a main instrument in Cretan Music? 
Many adaptations of the instrument have been done to cater to the special needs of Indian Carnatic music	Many adaptations of the instruments were done to cater to what type of music? 
Though almost any variety of acoustic mandolin might be adequate for Irish traditional music, virtually all Irish players prefer flat-backed instruments with oval sound holes to the Italian-style bowl-back mandolins or the carved-top mandolins with f-holes favoured by bluegrass mandolinists	What types of instruments do irish player prefer?
Noteworthy Irish mandolinists include Andy Irvine , Paul Brady, Mick Moloney, Paul Kelly and Claudine Langille	Who are some of the famous Irish Mandolinists?
Antonio Vivaldi composed a mandolin concerto (Concerto in C major Op	Who composed the Concerto in C Major Op 3 6?
The expansion of mandolin use continued after World War II through the late 1960s, and Japan still maintains a strong classical music tradition using mandolins, with active orchestras and university music programs	What country still maintains strong classic music tradition with mandolin?
The bandolim was a favourite instrument within the Portuguese bourgeoisie of the 19th century, but its rapid spread took it to other places, joining other instruments	What does bandolim mean?
Simon Mayor is a prominent British player who has produced six solo albums, instructional books and DVDs, as well as recordings with his mandolin quartet the Mandolinquents	Who is a famous British player?
"The mandolin's popularity in the United States was spurred by the success of a group of touring young European musicians known as the Estudiantina Figaro, or in the United States, simply the ""Spanish Students"	What group in the US was popular?
Mandolin awareness in the United States blossomed in the 1880s, as the instrument became part of a fad that continued into the mid-1920s	When did madolin awareness in the US become fluent?
Instruments were marketed by teacher-dealers, much as the title character in the popular musical The Music Man	What popular musical casted a teacher-dealer? 
The instrument was primarily used in an ensemble setting well into the 1930s, and although the fad died out at the beginning of the 1930s, the instruments that were developed for the orchestra found a new home in bluegrass	The setting the mandolin was used in until the 1930's was? 
Since the mid-nineties, several public-school mandolin-based guitar programs have blossomed around the country, including Fretworks Mandolin and Guitar Orchestra, the first of its kind	What groups have become popular amonbgpublic schools?
When Cowan Powers and his family recorded their old-time music from 1924-1926, his daughter Orpha Powers was one of the earliest known southern-music artists to record with the mandolin	What family recorded an old-time music in 1924-1926?
"Monroe's style involved playing lead melodies in the style of a fiddler, and also a percussive chording sound referred to as ""the chop"" for the sound made by the quickly struck and muted strings"	What chording sound was Monroe popular for?
Other major bluegrass mandolinists who emerged in the early 1950s and are still active include Jesse McReynolds who invented a syncopated banjo-roll-like style called crosspicking—and Bobby Osborne of the Osborne Brothers, who is a master of clarity and sparkling single-note runs	Who was the major bluegrass mandolinist that became popular in 1950's?
Jethro Burns, best known as half of the comedy duo Homer and Jethro, was also the first important jazz mandolinist	What is Jethro Burns commonly known for?
"Howard Armstrong, who is famous for blues violin, got his start with his father's mandolin and played in string bands similar to the other Tennessee string bands he came into contact with, with band makeup including ""mandolins and fiddles and guitars and banjos"	Who got his start with his father's mandolin? 
The mandolin has been used occasionally in rock music, first appearing in the psychedelic era of the late 1960s	When did the mandolin first appear in rock music?
Some rock musicians today use mandolins, often single-stringed electric models rather than double-stringed acoustic mandolins	What type of mandolin do rock musicians today use? 
As in Brazil, the mandolin has played an important role in the Music of Venezuela	What place in Brazil do mandolins play an important role? 
To fill this gap in the literature, mandolin orchestras have traditionally played many arrangements of music written for regular orchestras or other ensembles	What type of music has mandolins played? 
"Insects , ""cut into sections"") are a class of invertebrates within the arthropod phylum that have a chitinous exoskeleton, a three-part body , three pairs of jointed legs, compound eyes and one pair of antennae"	In what phylum are insects classified? 
The life cycles of insects vary but most hatch from eggs	How does the lifecycle of most insects typically begin?
As it allows for rapid yet stable movement, many insects adopt a tripedal gait in which they walk with their legs touching the ground in alternating triangles	What is the term for the gait of an insect characterized by walking in alternating triangles?
Humans regard certain insects as pests, and attempt to control them using insecticides and a host of other techniques	By what method do humans often try to control the spread of insects?
"The word ""insect"" comes from the Latin word insectum, meaning ""with a notched or divided body"", or literally ""cut into"", from the neuter singular perfect passive participle of insectare, ""to cut into, to cut up"", from in- ""into"" and secare ""to cut""; because insects appear ""cut into"" three sections"	What is the Latin term for insect?
In 2008, researchers at Tufts University uncovered what they believe is the world's oldest known full-body impression of a primitive flying insect, a 300 million-year-old specimen from the Carboniferous period	From what period do researchers believe that the oldest known full-body impression of a flying insect originates?
Late Carboniferous and Early Permian insect orders include both extant groups, their stem groups, and a number of Paleozoic groups, now extinct	In addition to Carboniferous, what other insect order is inclusive of extant groups, stem groups and Paleozoic groups?
Plants evolved chemical defenses against this herbivory and the insects, in turn, evolved mechanisms to deal with plant toxins	What type of defense did plants adaptively evolve in response to insects?
Insects can be divided into two groups historically treated as subclasses: wingless insects, known as Apterygota, and winged insects, known as Pterygota	What is the term for the class of insects with wings?
Traditional morphology-based or appearance-based systematics have usually given the Hexapoda the rank of superclass,:180 and identified four groups within it: insects , springtails , Protura, and Diplura, the latter three being grouped together as the Entognatha on the basis of internalized mouth parts	Morphology-based and appearance-based are known as what?
Paleoptera and Neoptera are the winged orders of insects differentiated by the presence of hardened body parts called sclerites, and in the Neoptera, muscles that allow their wings to fold flatly over the abdomen	Paleoptera and Neoptera are what kind of insect orders? 
The Exopterygota likely are paraphyletic in regard to the Endopterygota	What are likely to be paraphyletic?
Though the true dimensions of species diversity remain uncertain, estimates range from 2	The true diversity within the insect species remains what?
Insects have segmented bodies supported by exoskeletons, the hard outer covering made mostly of chitin	What kind of bodies to insects have?
The head is enclosed in a hard, heavily sclerotized, unsegmented, exoskeletal head capsule, or epicranium, which contains most of the sensing organs, including the antennae, ocellus or eyes, and the mouthparts	What part of the insect contains most of the sensing organs?
The thorax is a tagma composed of three sections, the prothorax, mesothorax and the metathorax	The throax has how many sections?
The abdomen is the largest tagma of the insect, which typically consists of 11–12 segments and is less strongly sclerotized than the head or thorax	What is the largest tagma of an insect?
The insect outer skeleton, the cuticle, is made up of two layers: the epicuticle, which is a thin and waxy water resistant outer layer and contains no chitin, and a lower layer called the procuticle	Insect's outer skeleton is known as what?
Insects are the only invertebrates to have developed active flight capability, and this has played an important role in their success	Insects are also known as what kind of vertebra?
The thoracic segments have one ganglion on each side, which are connected into a pair, one pair per segment	What is on each side of a thoracic segment?
At least a few insects have nociceptors, cells that detect and transmit sensations of pain	How many insects have nociceptors?
The salivary glands in an insect's mouth produce saliva	What produces saliva in an insects mouth?
Once food leaves the crop, it passes to the midgut , also known as the mesenteron, where the majority of digestion takes place	What is another name for mesenteron?
In the hindgut , or proctodaeum, undigested food particles are joined by uric acid to form fecal pellets	What is a proctodaeum?
The reproductive system of female insects consist of a pair of ovaries, accessory glands, one or more spermathecae, and ducts connecting these parts	Female insects reproductive system contain a pair of what?
For males, the reproductive system is the testis, suspended in the body cavity by tracheae and the fat body	What is the male reproductive system called? 
Insect respiration is accomplished without lungs	Respiration for insects happens without what?
There are many different patterns of gas exchange demonstrated by different groups of insects	What kind of exchange is demonstrated by different insects?
The fertilization and development takes place inside the egg, enclosed by a shell that consists of maternal tissue	Fertilization happens where?
Other developmental and reproductive variations include haplodiploidy, polymorphism, paedomorphosis or peramorphosis, sexual dimorphism, parthenogenesis and more rarely hermaphroditism	Polymophism is a developmental and reproductive what?
Some insects use parthenogenesis, a process in which the female can reproduce and give birth without having the eggs fertilized by a male	How many insects use parthenogenesis?
Hemimetabolous insects, those with incomplete metamorphosis, change gradually by undergoing a series of molts	Incomplete metamorphosis insects are called?
Holometabolism, or complete metamorphosis, is where the insect changes in four stages, an egg or embryo, a larva, a pupa and the adult or imago	What is a complete metamorphosis called?
Many insects possess very sensitive and, or specialized organs of perception	Insects have specialized organs of what kind?
Some insects display a rudimentary sense of numbers, such as the solitary wasps that prey upon a single species	Insects have what kind of sense of numbers?
A few insects, such as members of the families Poduridae and Onychiuridae , Mycetophilidae and the beetle families Lampyridae, Phengodidae, Elateridae and Staphylinidae are bioluminescent	What is another name for Colleobola?
Most insects, except some species of cave crickets, are able to perceive light and dark	Most insects are able to perceive darkness and what else?
Insects were the earliest organisms to produce and sense sounds	What were the earliest organisms to produce sound?
Very low sounds are also produced in various species of Coleoptera, Hymenoptera, Lepidoptera, Mantodea and Neuroptera	What sound volume is produced by Coleoptera?
Some species use vibrations for communicating within members of the same species, such as to attract mates as in the songs of the shield bug Nezara viridula	What are used by insects to communicate with members of the same species?
Chemical communications in animals rely on a variety of aspects including taste and smell	Animal taste and smell rely on what kind of communication?
In addition to the use of sound for communication, a wide range of insects have evolved chemical means for communication	Insects use sound and what other means for communication?
Social insects, such as termites, ants and many bees and wasps, are the most familiar species of eusocial animal	Termites are considered what type of insect?
Only insects which live in nests or colonies demonstrate any true capacity for fine-scale spatial orientation or homing	Insects with fine scale spatial orientation live in colonies and where else?
The eusocial insects build nest, guard eggs, and provide food for offspring full-time 	Eusocial insects provide food for their offspring full-time or part-time?
Insects are the only group of invertebrates to have developed flight	Insects are the only invertebrates that have evolved into what?
Many adult insects use six legs for walking and have adopted a tripedal gait	How many legs do adult insects contain?
More sedate locomotion is seen in the stick insects or walking sticks 	What kind of locomotion is seen in stick insects?
Water beetles and water bugs have legs adapted into paddle-like structures	Water beetles have legs of what type of structure?
Insect ecology is the scientific study of how insects, individually or as a community, interact with the surrounding environment or ecosystem	Learning how insects interact with the surrounding environment is called what?
Camouflage is an important defense strategy, which involves the use of coloration or shape to blend into the surrounding environment	What is an important defense strategy for insects to survive?
Another defense that often uses color or shape to deceive potential enemies is mimicry	Mimicry is another type of what kid of strategy?
Chemical defense is another important defense found amongst species of Coleoptera and Lepidoptera, usually being advertised by bright colors, such as the Monarch butterfly	What kind of defense is found in the Coleoptera species?
Pollination is the process by which pollen is transferred in the reproduction of plants, thereby enabling fertilisation and sexual reproduction	Pollen transferred in the reproduction of plants is called?
Many insects are considered pests by humans	Humans consider insects as what?
Although pest insects attract the most attention, many insects are beneficial to the environment and to humans	What kind of insects attract the most attention from humans?
Insectivorous insects, or insects which feed on other insects, are beneficial to humans because they eat insects that could cause damage to agriculture and human structures	What insects feed on other insects?
Insects play important roles in biological research	Insects play prominent roles in what?
In some cultures, insects, especially deep-fried cicadas, are considered to be delicacies, while in other places they form part of the normal diet	Insects are considered as what in some cultures?
Scarab beetles held religious and cultural symbolism in Old Egypt, Greece and some shamanistic Old World cultures	What ancient world insect is considered symbolic?
While some researchers sometimes use the concept of race to make distinctions among fuzzy sets of traits, others in the scientific community suggest that the idea of race often is used in a naive or simplistic way, and argue that, among humans, race has no taxonomic significance by pointing out that all living humans belong to the same species, Homo sapiens, and subspecies, Homo sapiens sapiens	What do all living humans belong to?
There is a wide consensus that the racial categories that are common in everyday usage are socially constructed, and that racial groups cannot be biologically defined	What type of group can't be biologically defined?
When people define and talk about a particular conception of race, they create a social reality through which social categorization is achieved	How do people create a social reality in which social categorization is achieved?
Socioeconomic factors, in combination with early but enduring views of race, have led to considerable suffering within disadvantaged racial groups	Socioeconomic factors and enduring views on race has led to what for certain racial groups?
In some countries, law enforcement uses race to profile suspects	What does law enforcement in some countries use to profile suspects?
Groups of humans have always identified themselves as distinct from neighboring groups, but such differences have not always been understood to be natural, immutable and global	What have human groups always considered themselves as compared to other nearby groups?
"The European concept of ""race"", along with many of the ideas now associated with the term, arose at the time of the scientific revolution, which introduced and privileged the study of natural kinds, and the age of European imperialism and colonization which established political relations between Europeans and peoples with distinct cultural and political traditions"	"When did many of the ideas associated with the term ""race"" arise?"
The first post-Classical published classification of humans into distinct races seems to be François Bernier's Nouvelle division de la terre par les différents espèces ou races qui l'habitent , published in 1684	Who was the author of the first published book classifying humans into distinct races?
"The 1775 treatise ""The Natural Varieties of Mankind"", by Johann Friedrich Blumenbach proposed five major divisions: the Caucasoid race, Mongoloid race, Ethiopian race , American Indian race, and Malayan race, but he did not propose any hierarchy among the races"	What year was Blumenbach's treatise published?
"From the 17th through 19th centuries, the merging of folk beliefs about group differences with scientific explanations of those differences produced what one scholar has called an ""ideology of race"""	What did the merging of superstitious beliefs and scientific ones regarding group differences produce?
In the last two decades of the 18th century, the theory of polygenism, the belief that different races had evolved separately in each continent and shared no common ancestor, was advocated in England by historian Edward Long and anatomist Charles White, in Germany by ethnographers Christoph Meiners and Georg Forster, and in France by Julien-Joseph Virey	What theory is the belief that differences races had evolved independently on each continent?
Today, all humans are classified as belonging to the species Homo sapiens and sub-species Homo sapiens sapiens	What species do all living humans today belong to?
In the early 20th century, many anthropologists accepted and taught the belief that biologically distinct races were isomorphic with distinct linguistic, cultural, and social groups, while popularly applying that belief to the field of eugenics, in conjunction with a practice that is now called scientific racism	Who taught and accepted the belief that biologically distinct races were isomorphic?
Population geneticists have debated whether the concept of population can provide a basis for a new conception of race	What type of geneticists have debates about what can provide a basis for a new conception of race?
Traditionally, subspecies are seen as geographically isolated and genetically differentiated populations	What are traditionally geographically isolated?
This effectively means that populations of organisms must have reached a certain measurable level of difference to be recognised as subspecies	What must organisms have a measurable level of to be seen as a subspecies?
In 1978, Sewall Wright suggested that human populations that have long inhabited separated parts of the world should, in general, be considered different subspecies by the usual criterion that most individuals of such populations can be allocated correctly by inspection	When did Sewall Wright make his suggestion about human populations?
Cladistics is another method of classification	What is cladistics a method of?
Often taxonomists prefer to use phylogenetic analysis to determine whether a population can be considered a subspecies	What analysis method are taxonomists fond of using in considering a population?
For the anthropologists Lieberman and Jackson , however, there are more profound methodological and conceptual problems with using cladistics to support concepts of race	What did Lieberman and Jackon find profound problems using cladistics to support concepts of?
Loring Brace's observation that such variations, insofar as it is affected by natural selection, slow migration, or genetic drift, are distributed along geographic gradations or clines	What did C. Loring Brace observe about about variations?
"In a response to Livingstone, Theodore Dobzhansky argued that when talking about race one must be attentive to how the term is being used: ""I agree with Dr"	What must one be attentive to when talking about race?
In 1964, the biologists Paul Ehrlich and Holm pointed out cases where two or more clines are distributed discordantly—for example, melanin is distributed in a decreasing pattern from the equator north and south; frequencies for the haplotype for beta-S hemoglobin, on the other hand, radiate out of specific geographical points in Africa	What did two biologists point out in 1964?
Scientists discovered a skin-lighting mutation that partially accounts for the appearance of Light skin in humans which they estimate occurred 20,000 to 50,000 years ago	What mutation did scientists discover?
" found ""a selected allele that strongly differentiates the French from both the Yoruba and Han could be strongly clinal across Europe, or at high frequency in Europe and absent elsewhere, or follow any other distribution according to the geographic nature of the selective pressure"	What thing that strongly differentiates the French from some other populations be clinal across Europe?
Another way to look at differences between populations is to measure genetic differences rather than physical differences between groups	What can one use to look at differences between groups instead of physical differences?
The population geneticist Sewall Wright developed one way of measuring genetic differences between populations known as the Fixation index, which is often abbreviated to FST	What did Sewall Wright develop one way of measuring?
25 represent very great genetic variation and that an FST of 0	FST values greater than .25 represent very great what?
"Jeffrey Long and Rick Kittles give a long critique of the application of FST to human populations in their 2003 paper ""Human Genetic Diversity and the Nonexistence of Biological Races"""	What two researchers gave a long critique regarding the application of FST to human populations in 2003?
Edwards argued that rather than using a locus-by-locus analysis of variation to derive taxonomy, it is possible to construct a human classification system based on characteristic genetic patterns, or clusters inferred from multilocus genetic data	What type of classification system for humans did A.W.F. Edwards argue for?
Early human genetic cluster analysis studies were conducted with samples taken from ancestral population groups living at extreme geographic distances from each other	What groups were early samples from for genetic cluster analysis?
 have argued that even when individuals can be reliably assigned to specific population groups, it may still be possible for two randomly chosen individuals from different populations/clusters to be more similar to each other than to a randomly chosen member of their own cluster	Randomly chosen people from different groups may be more similar to each other than with members of their own what?
The cluster structure of the genetic data is therefore dependent on the initial hypotheses of the researcher and the populations sampled	Cluster structure of genetic data is dependent on what initial thing?
"Many social scientists have replaced the word race with the word ""ethnicity"" to refer to self-identifying groups based on beliefs concerning shared culture, ancestry and history"	What word do many social scientists instead of race?
Craig Venter and Francis Collins of the National Institute of Health jointly made the announcement of the mapping of the human genome in 2000	What organization is Craig Venter and Francis Collins associated with?
"The theory that race is merely a social construct has been challenged by the findings of researchers at the Stanford University School of Medicine, published in the American Journal of Human Genetics as ""Genetic Structure, Self-Identified Race/Ethnicity, and Confounding in Case-Control Association Studies"""	Researchers from which university challenged the theory of race being only a social construct?
"Basically, race in Brazil was ""biologized"", but in a way that recognized the difference between ancestry and phenotypic differences"	"What country was race ""Biologized"" in?"
Over a dozen racial categories would be recognized in conformity with all the possible combinations of hair color, hair texture, eye color, and skin color	How many racial categories would be needed with all the possible combinations of outward features?
"Fluidity of racial categories aside, the ""biologification"" of race in Brazil referred above would match contemporary concepts of race in the United States quite closely, though, if Brazilians are supposed to choose their race as one among, Asian and Indigenous apart, three IBGE's census categories"	What categories have an aspect of fluidity?
that would not cluster people with a balanced degree of African and non-African ancestry in the black group instead of the multiracial one, unlike elsewhere in Latin America where people of high quantity of African descent tend to classify themselves as mixed), more people would report themselves as white and pardo in Brazil (47	What would more people report themselves as if a more consistent report were considered?
5 million people, they lived in such miserable conditions that male African Y-DNA there is significantly rare due to the lack of resources and time involved with raising of children, so that most African descent originarily came from relations between white masters and female slaves	What conditions did the African slaves in Brazil live in?
"The European Union uses the terms racial origin and ethnic origin synonymously in its documents and according to it ""the use of the term 'racial origin' in this directive does not imply an acceptance of such theories"""	Who uses the terms racial origin and ethnic origin interchangeably? 
"The concept of racial origin relies on the notion that human beings can be separated into biologically distinct ""races"", an idea generally rejected by the scientific community"	What relies on the idea humans can be divided into biologically distinct races?
Since the end of the Second World War, France has become an ethnically diverse country	France has become a more ethnically diverse country since the end of which war?
Since the early history of the United States, Amerindians, African–Americans, and European Americans have been classified as belonging to different races	Groups of people have been classified as belonging to difference races since what part of the U.S.'s history?
"The term ""Hispanic"" as an ethnonym emerged in the 20th century with the rise of migration of laborers from the Spanish-speaking countries of Latin America to the United States"	"When did the term ""Hispanic"" begin being used?"
 examined the use of race as a biological concept in research papers published in China's only biological anthropology journal, Acta Anthropologica Sinica	What is the name of China's only anthropology journal?
 in 2002–2003 surveyed European anthropologists' opinions toward the biological race concept	What years did Kaszycka survey Eureopean anthropolgists' opinions toward the biological race concept?
One result of debates over the meaning and validity of the concept of race is that the current literature across different disciplines regarding human variation lacks consensus, though within some fields, such as some branches of anthropology, there is strong consensus	What does the current literature regarding human variation lack?
"Eduardo Bonilla-Silva, Sociology professor at Duke University, remarks, ""I contend that racism is, more than anything else, a matter of group power; it is about a dominant racial group striving to maintain its systemic advantages and minorities fighting to subvert the racial status quo"	Where is Eduardo Bonilla-Silver a Sociology professor?
The concept of biological race has declined significantly in frequency of use in physical anthropology in the United States during the 20th century	What concept's use has declined significantly in the U.S. during the 20th century?
According to the 2000 edition of a popular physical anthropology textbook, forensic anthropologists are overwhelmingly in support of the idea of the basic biological reality of human races	What group of anthropologists overwhelmingly support the idea of human races?
"""Race"" is still sometimes used within forensic anthropology , biomedical research, and race-based medicine"	"What type of anthropology is ""race"" sometimes still used within?"
The authors of the study also examined 77 college textbooks in biology and 69 in physical anthropology published between 1932 and 1989	How many college textbooks in biology did the authors of the study examine?
Morning looked at high school biology textbooks during the 1952-2002 period and initially found a similar pattern with only 35% directly discussing race in the 1983–92 period from initially 92% doing so	What did Morning find when he looked at biology textbooks during the 1952-2002 period?
In the United States, federal government policy promotes the use of racially categorized data to identify and address health disparities between racial or ethnic groups	Who promotes the use of racially categorized data in the United States?
Other researchers point out that finding a difference in disease prevalence between two socially defined groups does not necessarily imply genetic causation of the difference	What does finding a difference in disease prevalence between two socially defined groups not necessarily imply?
"In an attempt to provide general descriptions that may facilitate the job of law enforcement officers seeking to apprehend suspects, the United States FBI employs the term ""race"" to summarize the general appearance of individuals whom they are attempting to apprehend"	What does the FBI feel providing general descriptions helps to facilitate?
Criminal justice agencies in England and Wales use at least two separate racial/ethnic classification systems when reporting crime, as of 2010	How many separate classification systems do agencies in England and Wales use?
In the United States, the practice of racial profiling has been ruled to be both unconstitutional and a violation of civil rights	Where has the practice of racial profiling been ruled to be unconstitutional?
Mass incarceration in the United States disproportionately impacts African American and Latino communities	What impacts African American and Latino communities in disproportionate numbers?
Similarly, forensic anthropologists draw on highly heritable morphological features of human remains (e	What morphological features do forensic anthropologists draw on?
"Abu el-Haj argues that genomics and the mapping of lineages and clusters liberates ""the new racial science from the older one by disentangling ancestry from culture and capacity"	What does mapping clusters disentangle ancestry from?
, who sought to distinguish between the Y chromosomes of Jewish priests , and the Y chromosomes of non-Jews	Thomas and others sought to distinguish between what chromosome of Jewish priests and that of non-Jews?
One problem with these assignments is admixture	What is a problem with racial assignments? 
Since the 19th century, the built-up area of Paris has grown far beyond its administrative borders; together with its suburbs, the whole agglomeration has a population of 10,550,350 (Jan	What is the aggregate population of Paris?
Paris is the home of the most visited art museum in the world, the Louvre, as well as the Musée d'Orsay, noted for its collection of French Impressionist art, and the Musée National d'Art Moderne, a museum of modern and contemporary art	What is the most visited art museum in the world?
Paris is home to the association football club Paris Saint-Germain and the rugby union club Stade Français	What is the name of the football club in Paris?
By the end of the Western Roman Empire, the town was known simply as Parisius in Latin and Paris in French	What was Paris known as in Latin?
Clovis the Frank, the first king of the Merovingian dynasty, made the city his capital from 508	who was the first king of the Merovingian dynasty?
The Île de la Cité was the site of the royal palace	What was the site of the royal palace in the 12th century?
During the Hundred Years' War, the army of the Duke of Burgundy and a force of about two hundred English soldiers occupied Paris from May 1420 until 1436	In what years did the English soldiers occupy Paris during the Hundred Years War?
Louis XIV distrusted the Parisians and moved his court to Versailles in 1682, but his reign also saw an unprecedented flourishing of the arts and sciences in Paris	In what year did Louis XIV move his court to Versailles?
Louis XVI and the royal family were brought to Paris and made virtual prisoners within the Tuileries Palace	Where did Louis XVI and his family live?
Louis-Philippe was overthrown by a popular uprising in the streets of Paris in 1848	In what year was Louis-Phillipe over thrown?
Paris became the laboratory of Naturalism and Symbolism , and of Impressionism in art (Courbet, Manet, Monet, Renoir	What type of art did Courbet, Manet, Monet and Renoir create?
During the First World War, Paris sometimes found itself on the front line; 600 to 1,000 Paris taxis played a small but highly important symbolic role in transporting 6,000 soldiers to the front line at the First Battle of the Marne	How many soldiers did Parisian Taxis transport to the front line at the First Battle of the Marne?
"On 14 June 1940, the German army marched into Paris, which had been declared an ""open city"""	On what date did the German army declare Paris as an open city?
In the 1950s and the 1960s, Paris became one front of the Algerian War for independence; in August 1961, the pro-independence FLN targeted and killed 11 Paris policemen, leading to the imposition of a curfew on Muslims of Algeria 	How many police officers did the pro-independence FLN kill in August of 1961?
Most of the postwar's presidents of the Fifth Republic wanted to leave their own monuments in Paris; President Georges Pompidou started the Centre Georges Pompidou , Valéry Giscard d'Estaing began the Musée d'Orsay ; President François Mitterrand, in power for 14 years, built the Opéra Bastille , the Bibliothèque nationale de France , the Arche de la Défense , and the Louvre Pyramid with its underground courtyard ; Jacques Chirac , the Musée du quai Branly	In what year was the Centre Georges Pompidou erected?
In March 2001, Bertrand Delanoë became the first socialist mayor of Paris	Who was the first socialist mayor of Paris?
On 7 January 2015, two French Muslim extremists attacked the Paris headquarters of Charlie Hebdo and killed thirteen people, and on 9 January, a third terrorist killed four hostages during an attack at a Jewish grocery store at Porte de Vincennes	On what date did two Muslim extremists attack Charlie Hebdo?
Paris is located in northern central France	Where in France is Paris located?
Excluding the outlying parks of Bois de Boulogne and Bois de Vincennes, Paris covers an oval measuring about 87 km2 in area, enclosed by the 35 km ring road, the Boulevard Périphérique	What road encircles Paris?
Paris has a typical Western European oceanic climate which is affected by the North Atlantic Current	Which current affects Paris' weather?
In winter, sunshine is scarce; days are cold but generally above freezing with temperatures around 7 °C 	What is the average temperature during winter?
The mayor of Paris is elected indirectly by Paris voters; the voters of each arrondissement elect the Conseil de Paris , composed of 163 members	How many members are there in the Conseil de Paris?
The largest part of the budget went for public housing and urbanism projects; 15 percent for roads and transport; 8 percent for schools ; 5 percent for parks and gardens; and 4 percent for culture	What percent of the budget goes towards public housing and urbanism projects?
8	What percentage of the budget is allocated for schools?
The Métropole du Grand Paris, or Metropolis of Greater Paris, formally came into existence on January 1, 2016	When did the Metropole du Grand Paris come into existence?
The new structure is administered by a Metropolitan Council of 210 members, not directly elected, but chosen by the councils of the member Communes	How many members are in the Metropolitan Council?
The Region of Île de France, including Paris and its surrounding communities, is governed by the Regional Council, which has its headquarters in the 7th arrondissement of Paris	In which district is the Regional Coucil housed?
France's highest courts are located in Paris	Where are France's highest courts located?
Paris and its region host the headquarters of several international organisations including UNESCO, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, the International Chamber of Commerce, the Paris Club, the European Space Agency, the International Energy Agency, the Organisation internationale de la Francophonie, the European Union Institute for Security Studies, the International Bureau of Weights and Measures, the International Exhibition Bureau and the International Federation for Human Rights	Where is the headquarters for UNESCO?
The security of Paris is mainly the responsibility of the Prefecture of Police of Paris, a subdivision of the Ministry of the Interior of France	Who is responsible for the security of Paris?
Modern Paris owes much to its late 19th century Second Empire remodelling by the Baron Haussmann: many of modern Paris' busiest streets, avenues and boulevards today are a result of that city renovation	Who remodeled Paris in the 19th century?
In recent developments, a 1974-2010 building height limitation of 37 metres was raised to 50 m in central areas and 180 metres in some of Paris' peripheral quarters, yet for some of the city's more central quarters, even older building-height laws still remain in effect	What is the current height limitation in Paris in central areas?
The 19th century produced the neoclassical church of La Madeleine ; the Palais Garnier Opera House ; the neo-Byzantine Basilica of Sacré-Cœur , and the exuberant Belle Époque modernism of the Eiffel Tower 	When was La Madeleine built?
In 2012 the Paris agglomeration counted 28,800 people without a fixed residence, an increase of 84 percent since 2001; it represents 43 percent of the homeless in all of France	What was the population of the urban area of Paris in 2012 without a fixed residence?
Aside from the 20th century addition of the Bois de Boulogne, Bois de Vincennes and Paris heliport, Paris' administrative limits have remained unchanged since 1860	What are they only two additions to Paris' administrative limits since 1860?
Paul Delouvrier promised to resolve the Paris-suburbs mésentente when he became head of the Paris region in 1961: two of his most ambitious projects for the Region were the construction of five suburban villes nouvelles and the RER commuter train network	When did Paul Delouvrier become the head of the Paris region?
These areas, quartiers sensibles , are in northern and eastern Paris, namely around its Goutte d'Or and Belleville neighbourhoods	Where are the quartiers sensibles located?
The population of Paris in its administrative city limits was 2,241,346 in January 2014	In Janurary of 2014, what was the population of Paris' city limits?
9 million in 1921	When was Paris' population peak?
According to Eurostat, the EU statistical agency, in 2012 the Commune of Paris was the most densely populated city in the European Union, with 21,616 people per square kilometre within the city limits , ahead of Inner London West, which had 10,374 people per square kilometre	What was the most populated city in the EU in 2012?
According to the 2012 census, 135,853 residents of the city of Paris were immigrants from Europe, 112,369 were immigrants from the Maghreb, 70,852 from sub-Saharan Africa and Egypt, 5,059 from Turkey, 91,297 from Asia , 38,858 from the Americas, and 1,365 from the South Pacific	How many immigrants were in Paris in 2012 from Europe?
2% in agriculture	What industry had the lowest percentage of jobs in Paris of 2012?
The second-largest business district in terms of employment is La Défense, just west of the city, where many companies installed their offices in the 1990s	Who is the second largest business district employer?
The Paris Region is France's leading region for economic activity, with a 2012 GDP of €624 billion 	What was Paris Region's GDP in 2012?
The Paris Region economy has gradually shifted from industry to high-value-added service industries (finance, IT services, etc	What as the Paris Region's economy shifted towards?
The majority of Paris' salaried employees fill 370,000 businesses services jobs, concentrated in the north-western 8th, 16th and 17th arrondissements	In what districts are the majority of businesses service jobs located?
Paris' manufacturing is mostly focused in its suburbs, and the city itself has only around 75,000 manufacturing workers, most of which are in the textile, clothing, leather goods and shoe trades	How many manufacturing workers does Paris have?
The southern Essonne department specialises in science and technology, and the south-eastern Val-de-Marne, with its wholesale Rungis food market, specialises in food processing and beverages	What does the southern Essonne department specialize in?
The average net household income in Paris was €36,085 for 2011	What was the average net household income in Paris in 2011?
In 2012, 14 percent of households in the city earned less than €977 per month, the official poverty line	What percentage of households earned less than 977 per month?
7	What percentage of people lived below the poverty line in Paris' wealthiest neighborhood?
The city's top tourist attraction was the Notre Dame Cathedral, which welcomed 14 million visitors in 2013	What is Paris' top tourist attraction?
The centre of Paris contains the most visited monuments in the city, including the Notre Dame Cathedral and the Louvre as well as the Sainte-Chapelle; Les Invalides, where the tomb of Napoleon is located, and the Eiffel Tower are located on the Left Bank south-west of the centre	Where are the most visited monuments located in Paris?
As of 2013 the City of Paris had 1,570 hotels with 70,034 rooms, of which 55 were rated five-star, mostly belonging to international chains and mostly located close to the centre and the Champs-Élysées	How many hotels are in the City of Paris?
Italian artists were a profound influence on the development of art in Paris in the 16th and 17th centuries, particularly in sculpture and reliefs	What art was Paris famous for in the 16th and 17th centuries?
Paris was central to the development of Romanticism in art, with painters such as Gericault	What type of art did Paris help develop with painters like Gericault?
The inventor Nicéphore Niépce produced the first permanent photograph on a polished pewter plate in Paris in 1825, and then developed the process with Louis Daguerre	In what year was the first permanent photograph produced?
The Louvre was the world's most visited art museum in 2014, with 9	What was the most visited art museum in Paris in 2014?
The National Museum of Natural History, on the Left Bank, is famous for its dinosaur artefacts, mineral collections, and its Gallery of Evolution	What museum is famous for its dinosaur artifacts?
Philharmonie de Paris, the modern symphonic concert hall of Paris, opened in January 2015	When did Philharmonie de Paris open?
The oldest and most famous Paris theatre is the Comédie-Française, founded in 1680	When was the oldest Paris theater founded?
The Moulin Rouge was opened in 1889	In what year was The Moulin Rouge opened?
The first book printed in France, Epistolae , by Gasparinus de Bergamo , was published in Paris in 1470 by the press established by Johann Heynlin	What was the title of the first book printed in France?
Victor Hugo's The Hunchback of Notre Dame inspired the renovation of its setting, the Notre-Dame de Paris	What book inspired the renovation of Notre Dame?
The winner of the 2014 Nobel Prize in Literature, Patrick Modiano–who lives in Paris–, based most of his literary work on the depiction of the city during World War II and the 1960s-1970s	Who was the winner of the 2014 Nobel prize in literature?
In the 1970s, 80 percent of French-language publishing houses were found in Paris, almost all on the Left Bank in the 5th, 6th and 7th arrondissements	What percentage of french publishing houses were in Paris in the 1970s?
In the late 12th-century, a school of polyphony was established at the Notre-Dame	in what century was a school of polyphony established at Notre Dame?
Bal-musette is a style of French music and dance that first became popular in Paris in the 1870s and 1880s; by 1880 Paris had some 150 dance halls in the working-class neighbourhoods of the city	What style of french music became populars in the 1870sto 1880s?
Most of the clubs closed by the early 1960s, as musical tastes shifted toward rock and roll	When did most of the jazz clubs close down?
The movie industry was born in Paris when Auguste and Louis Lumière projected the first motion picture for a paying audience at the Grand Café on 28 December 1895	Where was the first movie projected for a paying audience in Paris?
On 2 February 2000, Philippe Binant realised the first digital cinema projection in Europe, with the DLP CINEMA technology developed by Texas Instruments, in Paris	Who realied the first digital cinema projection in Europe?
A luxury restaurant, La Taverne Anglaise, opened in 1786 in the arcades of the Palais-Royal by Antoine Beauvilliers; it featured an elegant dining room, an extensive menu, linen tablecloths, a large wine list and well-trained waiters; it became a model for future Paris restaurants	What is the model for luxury Parisian restaurants?
Today, thanks to Paris' cosmopolitan population, every French regional cuisine and almost every national cuisine in the world can be found there; the city has more than 9,000 restaurants	How many restaurants are there today in Paris?
The café arrived in Paris in the 17th century, when the beverage was first brought from Turkey, and by the 18th century Parisian cafés were centres of the city's political and cultural life	When was the first cafe opened in Paris?
Paris has been an international capital of high fashion since the 19th century, particularly in the domain of haute couture, clothing hand-made to order for private clients	What is clothing made to order for private clients called?
The Paris region hosts France's highest concentration of the grandes écoles – 55 specialised centres of higher-education outside the public university structure	How many centres of higher education are in Paris?
The Bibliothèque nationale de France operates public libraries in Paris, among them the François Mitterrand Library, Richelieu Library, Louvois, Opéra Library, and Arsenal Library	Who operates the public libraries in Paris?
The Sorbonne Library in the 5th arrondissement is the largest university library in Paris	What is the largest university library?
Like the rest of France, Paris has been predominantly Roman Catholic since the early Middle Ages, though religious attendance is now low	What is the most predominant religion in France?
Almost all Protestant denominations are represented in Paris, with 74 evangelical churches from various denominations, including 21 parishes of the United Protestant Church of France and two parishes of the Church of Jesus Christ of the Latter-Day Saints	How many evangelical churches are there in Paris?
Although 75% of the Jewish population in France survived the Holocaust during World War II, half the city's Jewish population perished in Nazi concentration camps, while some others fled abroad	What percentage of France's Jewish population survived the holocaust?
The Pagode de Vincennes Buddhist temple, near Lake Daumesnil in the Bois de Vincennes, is the former Cameroon pavilion from the 1931 Paris Colonial Exposition	What is the former Cameroon pavilion?
The 80,000-seat Stade de France, built for the 1998 FIFA World Cup, is located just north of Paris in the commune of Saint-Denis	How many seats are in the State de France?
The Syndicat des transports d'Île-de-France , formerly Syndicat des transports parisiens , oversees the transit network in the region	Who oversees the transit network in Paris?
In addition, the Paris region is served by a light rail network of nine lines, the tramway: Line T1 runs from Asnières-Gennevilliers to Noisy-le-Sec, line T2 runs from Pont de Bezons to Porte de Versailles, line T3a runs from Pont du Garigliano to Porte de Vincennes, line T3b runs from Porte de Vincennes to Porte de la Chapelle, line T5 runs from Saint-Denis to Garges-Sarcelles, line T6 runs from Châtillon to Velizy, line T7 runs from Villejuif to Athis-Mons, line T8 runs from Saint-Denis to Épinay-sur-Seine and Villetaneuse, all of which are operated by the Régie Autonome des Transports Parisiens, and line T4 runs from Bondy RER to Aulnay-sous-Bois, which is operated by the state rail carrier SNCF	Where does line T1 run from?
Paris is a major international air transport hub with the 4th busiest airport system in the world	Where is the 4th busiest international air transport hub in the world?
Beauvais-Tillé Airport, located 69 km north of Paris' city centre, is used by charter airlines and low-cost carriers such as Ryanair	What airport does Ryanair use?
From 1809, the Canal de l'Ourcq provided Paris with water from less-polluted rivers to the north-east of the capital	WHen did the Canal de l'Ourcq start providing Paris with water?
Paris today has more than 421 municipal parks and gardens, covering more than 3,000 hectares and containing more than 250,000 trees	How many municipal parks and gardens does Paris have?
Between 1853 and 1870, the Emperor Napoleon III and the city's first director of parks and gardens, Jean-Charles Alphand, created the Bois de Boulogne, the Bois de Vincennes, Parc Montsouris and the Parc des Buttes-Chaumont, located at the four points of the compass around the city, as well as many smaller parks, squares and gardens in the Paris' quarters	Who was Paris' first director of parks and gardens?
With Paris' growth many of these, particularly the city's largest cemetery, les Innocents, were filled to overflowing, creating quite unsanitary conditions for the capital	What is Paris' largest cemetary?
After a tentative creation of several smaller suburban cemeteries, the Prefect Nicholas Frochot under Napoleon Bonaparte provided a more definitive solution in the creation of three massive Parisian cemeteries outside the city limits	Who was Prefect Nicholas Frochot under?
Health care and emergency medical service in the city of Paris and its suburbs are provided by the Assistance publique - Hôpitaux de Paris , a public hospital system that employs more than 90,000 people in 44 hospitals	Who provides emergency care in the city of Paris?
France's two most prestigious newspapers, Le Monde and Le Figaro, are the centrepieces of the Parisian publishing industry	What are France's two most prestigious newspapers?
The most-viewed network in France, TF1, is in nearby Boulogne-Billancourt; France 2, France 3, Canal+, France 5, M6 , Arte, D8, W9, NT1, NRJ 12, La Chaîne parlementaire, France 4, BFM TV, and Gulli are other stations located in and around the capital	What is the most viewed television network in France?
The ideal of the kouros , Apollo has been variously recognized as a god of music, truth and prophecy, healing, the sun and light, plague, poetry, and more	What is the word for a beardless, athletic youth?
As the patron of Delphi , Apollo was an oracular god—the prophetic deity of the Delphic Oracle	Who was described at the prophetic deity of the Delphic Oracle?
In Hellenistic times, especially during the 3rd century BCE, as Apollo Helios he became identified among Greeks with Helios, Titan god of the sun, and his sister Artemis similarly equated with Selene, Titan goddess of the moon	Who was the Titan goddess of the moon?
It probably is a cognate to the Doric month Apellaios , and the offerings apellaia at the initiation of the young men during the family-festival apellai 	What is the name of the popular assembly in Sparta?
"Hesychius connects the name Apollo with the Doric ἀπέλλα , which means ""assembly"", so that Apollo would be the god of political life, and he also gives the explanation σηκός , ""fold"", in which case Apollo would be the god of flocks and herds"	What Doric word means assembly?
"A number of non-Greek etymologies have been suggested for the name, The Hittite form Apaliunas is attested in the Manapa-Tarhunta letter, perhaps related to Hurrian Aplu, a god of plague, in turn likely from Akkadian Aplu Enlil meaning simply ""the son of Enlil"", a title that was given to the god Nergal, who was linked to Shamash, Babylonian god of the sun"	Who is a god of plague?
As sun-god and god of light, Apollo was also known by the epithets Aegletes , Helius , Phanaeus , and Lyceus 	Who was the god of light?
"An etiology in the Homeric hymns associated the epithet ""Delphinius"" with dolphins"	The epithet Delphinius is associated with what animal?
In Apollo's role as a healer, his appellations included Acesius , Acestor , Paean , and Iatrus 	What is the literal word for latrus?
As a protector and founder, Apollo had the epithets Alexicacus , Apotropaeus , and Epicurius , and Archegetes , Clarius , and Genetor 	"What word literally means ""warding off evil?"""
In his role as god of prophecy and truth, Apollo had the epithets Manticus , Leschenorius , and Loxias 	Which epithet has historically been associated with ambiguous?
As a god of archery, Apollo was known as Aphetor or Aphetorus , Argyrotoxus , Hecaërgus , and Hecebolus 	As god of archery, Apollo was known by what name?
The Delos sanctuary was primarily dedicated to Artemis, Apollo's twin sister	Who was Apollo's twin sister?
"From his eastern origin Apollo brought the art of inspection of ""symbols and omina"" , and of the observation of the omens of the days"	"Who brought the art of inspection of ""symbols and omina?"""
"The magicians were also called ""seer-doctors"" , and they used an ecstatic prophetic art which was used exactly by the god Apollo at the oracles"	What were magicians also called?
"Some common epithets of Apollo as a healer are ""paion"" ""epikourios"" , ""oulios"" and ""loimios"" "	What is a comon epithet of Apollo as a healer?
 Such songs were originally addressed to Apollo, and afterwards to other gods: to Dionysus, to Apollo Helios, to Apollo's son Asclepius the healer	Who was Apollo's son?
"The connection with Dorians and their initiation festival apellai is reinforced by the month Apellaios in northwest Greek calendars, but it can explain only the Doric type of the name, which is connected with the Ancient Macedonian word ""pella"" , stone"	What does the word Pella mean?
A female dragon named Delphyne , who is obviously connected with Delphi and Apollo Delphinios, and a male serpent Typhon , the adversary of Zeus in the Titanomachy, who the narrators confused with Python	Who was the adversary of Zeus in the titanomachy?
Apollo and his sister Artemis can bring death with their arrows	Who is Apollo's sister?
"In historical times, the priests of Delphi were called Labryaden, ""the double-axe men"", which indicates Minoan origin"	"What was the name for ""the double-axe men?"""
This led some scholars to the conclusion that Pythia carried on the rituals in a consistent procedure through many centuries, according to the local tradition	Who did scholars beieve carried on the rituals in a consistent procedure?
"Plato describes the priestesses of Delphi and Dodona as frenzied women, obsessed by ""mania"" , a Greek word he connected with mantis "	Who describes Delphi and Dodona as frenzied women?
The name of Apollo's mother Leto has Lydian origin, and she was worshipped on the coasts of Asia Minor	What origin was Leto?
He writes that the Cretan seer Epimenides purified Athens after the pollution brought by the Alcmeonidae, and that the seer's expertise in sacrifices and reform of funeral practices were of great help to Solon in his reform of the Athenian state	Who is the Cretan seer that purified Athen after the pollution brought by the Alcmeonidae?
The god seems to be related to Appaliunas, a tutelary god of Wilusa in Asia Minor, but the word is not complete	Who was a tutelary god of Wilusa?
The Late Bronze Age Hittite and Hurrian Aplu was a god of plague, invoked during plague years	What age ran from 1700 to 1200 BCE?
Unusually among the Olympic deities, Apollo had two cult sites that had widespread influence: Delos and Delphi	which two cult sites had widespread infuence?
It seems that the first peripteral temples were rectangle wooden structures	What buildings were originally rectangle wood structures?
It is also stated that Hera kidnapped Eileithyia, the goddess of childbirth, to prevent Leto from going into labor	Who kidnapped Eileithyia?
Four days after his birth, Apollo killed the chthonic dragon Python, which lived in Delphi beside the Castalian Spring	What was the name of the chthonic dragon?
When Zeus struck down Apollo's son Asclepius with a lightning bolt for resurrecting Hippolytus from the dead , Apollo in revenge killed the Cyclopes, who had fashioned the bolt for Zeus	Who is Apollo's son?
Daphne was a nymph, daughter of the river god Peneus, who had scorned Apollo	Who was the daughter of Peneus?
Leucothea was daughter of Orchamus and sister of Clytia	Who was Leucothea's mother?
Coronis, was daughter of Phlegyas, King of the Lapiths	Who was the daughter of Phlegyas?
Hyacinth or Hyacinthus was one of Apollo's male lovers	Who was one of Apollo's male lovers?
Apollo and the Furies argue about whether the matricide was justified; Apollo holds that the bond of marriage is sacred and Orestes was avenging his father, whereas the Erinyes say that the bond of blood between mother and son is more meaningful than the bond of marriage	Who argued about whether the matricide was justified?
Once Pan had the audacity to compare his music with that of Apollo, and to challenge Apollo, the god of the kithara, to a trial of skill	Who challenged Apollo to a trial of skill?
As Apollo played the lyre, this was easy to do	What instrument did Apolo play?
"On the occasion of a pestilence in the 430s BCE, Apollo's first temple at Rome was established in the Flaminian fields, replacing an older cult site there known as the ""Apollinare"""	Where was Apollo's first temple at Rome established?
As god of colonization, Apollo gave oracular guidance on colonies, especially during the height of colonization, 750–550 BCE	Who was god of colonization?
In literary contexts, Apollo represents harmony, order, and reason—characteristics contrasted with those of Dionysus, god of wine, who represents ecstasy and disorder	Who was the god of wine?
Finally Praxiteles seems to be released from any art and religious conformities, and his masterpieces are a mixture of naturalism with stylization	Whose masterpieces are a mixture of naturallism with stylization?
In classical Greece, Anaxagoras asserted that a divine reason gave order to the seeds of the universe, and Plato extended the Greek belief of ideal forms to his metaphysical theory of forms 	Who asserted that a divine reason gave order to the seeds of the universe?
Kouros is the modern term given to those representations of standing male youths which first appear in the archaic period in Greece	What is the modern term given to those representations of stnding male youths that first appear in the archaic period in Greece?
In the first large-scale depictions during the early archaic period , the artists tried to draw one's attention to look into the interior of the face and the body which were not represented as lifeless masses, but as being full of life	The period between 640-580 BC was known as what?
The animistic idea as the representation of the imaginative reality, is sanctified in the Homeric poems and in Greek myths, in stories of the god Hephaestus and the mythic Daedalus that made images which moved of their own accord	Who is said to be the builder of the labyrinth?
The last stage in the development of the Kouros type is the late archaic period , in which the Greek sculpture attained a full knowledge of human anatomy and used to create a relative harmonious whole	What period ran from 520-485 BC?
Polykleitos in his Canon wrote that beauty consists in the proportion not of the elements , but of the parts, that is the interrelation of parts with one another and with the whole	Who wrote that beauty consists in the proportion not of the elements?
The statues of Apollo were thought to incarnate his living presence, and these representations of illusive imaginative reality had deep roots in the Minoan period, and in the beliefs of the first Greek speaking people who entered the region during the bronze-age	The statues of who were thought to incarnate his living presence?
The artists seem to have been dominated by geometrical pattern and order, and this was improved when classical art brought a greater freedom and economy	Who seemed to have been dominated by geometrical pattern and order?
Apollo as a handsome beardless young man, is often depicted with a kithara or bow in his hand, or reclining on a tree 	Who is often depicted with a kithara or bow in his hand?
Bush's margin of victory in the popular vote was the smallest ever for a reelected incumbent president, but marked the first time since his father's victory 16 years prior that a candidate won a majority of the popular vote	Which candidate, in the 2004 election, had the majority of the popular vote?
Just eight months into his presidency, the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 suddenly transformed Bush into a wartime president	What even occured during Bush's presidency that made him become a wartime president?
The Bush administration then turned its attention to Iraq, and argued the need to remove Saddam Hussein from power in Iraq had become urgent	Who did Bush feel was important to remove from power, after removing the Taliban from Kabul?
On March 10, 2004, Bush officially clinched the number of delegates needed to be nominated at the 2004 Republican National Convention in New York City	By what date did Bush obtain the number of votes required to become the 2004 Republican nominee?
By summer of 2003, Howard Dean had become the apparent front runner for the Democratic nomination, performing strongly in most polls and leading the pack with the largest campaign war chest	Who became the Democratic nominee, half way through 2003?
In September 2003, retired four-star general Wesley Clark announced his intention to run in the presidential primary election for the Democratic Party nomination	Which Democratic nominee declared his intention to enter into the presidential race, in the fall of 2003?
In sheer numbers, Kerry had fewer endorsements than Howard Dean, who was far ahead in the superdelegate race going into the Iowa caucuses in January 2004, although Kerry led the endorsement race in Iowa, New Hampshire, Arizona, South Carolina, New Mexico and Nevada	Who had the least amount of backers, between Kerry and Dean?
In the race for individual contributions, economist Lyndon LaRouche dominated the pack leading up to the primaries	Who, at the start of the primaries, had the most single campaign contributors?
By the January 2004 Iowa caucuses, the field had dwindled down to nine candidates, as Bob Graham had dropped out of the race	How many candidates remained by the end of the Iowa caucuses, in January 2004?
The dismal results caused Gephardt to drop out and later endorse Kerry	Which candidate, after dropping out, went on to endorse Kerry?
The following week, John Edwards won the South Carolina primary and finished a strong second in Oklahoma to Clark	Which candidate went on to win the South Carolina primary?
In March's Super Tuesday, Kerry won decisive victories in the California, Connecticut, Georgia, Maryland, Massachusetts, New York, Ohio, and Rhode Island primaries and the Minnesota caucuses	Which candidate was the fore-runner after definitively winning in the primaries and Minnesota caucuses?
On July 6, John Kerry selected John Edwards as his running mate, shortly before the 2004 Democratic National Convention in Boston, held later that month	Who did John Kerry choose to be by his side as the potential Vice President?
"Bush focused his campaign on national security, presenting himself as a decisive leader and contrasted Kerry as a ""flip-flopper"	What was the primary focus of Bush's campaign?
Bush was accused of failing to fulfill his required service in the Texas Air National Guard	Who was accused on not fulfilling their military service, during the fall of 2004?
The first debate was held on September 30 at the University of Miami, moderated by Jim Lehrer of PBS	Where did the first debate, between Kerry and Bush take place?
Conducted in a town meeting format, less formal than the first presidential debate, this debate saw Bush and Kerry taking questions on a variety of subjects from a local audience	Was the second debate held in a rigid, formalistic manner?
Bush and Kerry met for the third and final debate at Arizona State University on October 13	How many debates were there in total, between Kerry and Bush?
The Electoral College officials certified this ballot as a vote for John Edwards for president	Who received a certified ballot from the Electoral College, despite his name being spelled incorrectly on the ballot?
Bush had established a lead of around 130,000 votes but the Democrats pointed to provisional ballots that had yet to be counted, initially reported to number as high as 200,000	Despite an apparent lead by Bush early on, what was thought to be a concern?
At the official counting of the electoral votes on January 6, a motion was made contesting Ohio's electoral votes	Was there any debate about the voting process in Ohio?
""" In the same article, Democratic National Committee Chairman Howard Dean said ""I'm not confident that the election in Ohio was fairly decided"	Which Democratic official supported Kerry's theory about the Ohio votes?
"The report reads: ""The November 2, 2004 elections in the United States mostly met the OSCE commitments included in the 1990 Copenhagen Document"	What were the findings of the OSCE team?
The 2004 election was the first to be affected by the campaign finance reforms mandated by the Bipartisan Campaign Reform Act of 2002 	What finance act affected the 2004 election?
To distinguish official campaigning from independent campaigning, political advertisements on television were required to include a verbal disclaimer identifying the organization responsible for the advertisement	How were viewers able to determine who endorsed political campaign ads, they saw in advertisements??
A ballot initiative in Colorado, known as Amendment 36, would have changed the way in which the state apportions its electoral votes	What action suggested by a state, would have affecting the outcome of the electoral votes?
The contemporary Liberal Party generally advocates economic liberalism 	What is economic liberalism sometimes also referred to?
Throughout their history, the Liberals have been in electoral terms largely the party of the middle class , though such class-based voting patterns are no longer as clear as they once were	"Whom are referred to as ""The forgoten people?"""
Liberal leaders from Menzies to Malcolm Fraser generally maintained Australia's high tariff levels	Did Mezies and Malcom Fraser raise, mainain, or lower tariff levels?
The Liberals' immediate predecessor was the United Australia Party 	Which group was predecessor to the Liberals?
The stance of Lyons and other Labor rebels against the more radical proposals of the Labor movement to deal the Great Depression had attracted the support of prominent Australian conservatives	What economic event influenced the 1931 Election?
"Roosevelt's ""fireside chats"" of the 1930s–in which he spoke of the middle class as the ""backbone of Australia"" but as nevertheless having been ""taken for granted"" by political parties"	How did Roosevelt refer to the middle class?
The formation of the party was formally announced at Sydney Town Hall on 31 August 1945	Where was the formation of the Liberal party officially announced?
After an initial loss to Labor at the 1946 election, Menzies led the Liberals to victory at the 1949 election, and the party stayed in office for a record 23 years—still the longest unbroken run in government at the federal level	How many years did the Liberals stay in office after the 1949 election?
Anti-communism was a key political issue of the 1950s and 1960s	What was a key political topic in the 1950s and 1960s?
The Menzies Government entered Australia's first formal military alliance outside of the British Commonwealth with the signing of the ANZUS Treaty between Australia, New Zealand and the United States in San Francisco in 1951	Which treaty was Australia's first military alliance outside of the British Commonwealth?
In 1958 the government replaced the Immigration Act's arbitrarily applied European language dictation test with an entry permit system, that reflected economic and skills criteria	What did the Immigration Act's entry permit system include?
Holt increased Australian commitment to the growing War in Vietnam, which met with some public opposition	Government under whom experienced the conversion to decimal currency?
The Gorton Government increased funding for the arts, setting up the Australian Council for the Arts, the Australian Film Development Corporation and the National Film and Television Training School	Which government put an emphasis in supporting the arts?
Gorton maintained good relations with the United States and Britain, but pursued closer ties with Asia	Which continent did Gorton wish to pursue closer ties with?
During McMahon's period in office, Neville Bonner joined the Senate and became the first Indigenous Australian in the Australian Parliament	Who became the first indigenous Austrailian in Parliament?
The deadlock came to an end when the Whitlam government was dismissed by the Governor-General, Sir John Kerr on 11 November 1975 and Fraser was installed as caretaker Prime Minister, pending an election	On what day did the 1975 constitutional crisis deadlock end?
"His government included the first Aboriginal federal parliamentarian, Neville Bonner, and in 1976, Parliament passed the Aboriginal Land Rights Act 1976, which, while limited to the Northern Territory, affirmed ""inalienable"" freehold title to some traditional lands"	Which document allowed Indigenous peoples the right to some traditional lands?
Howard differed from his Labor predecessor Paul Keating in that he supported traditional Australian institutions like the Monarchy in Australia, the commemoration of ANZAC Day and the design of the Australian flag, but like Keating he pursued privatisation of public utilities and the introduction of a broad based consumption tax 	How was Howard different from Paul Keating?
In Queensland, the Liberal and National parties merged in 2008 to form the new Liberal National Party of Queensland 	Which parties merged in Queensland in 2008 to form the new Liberal National Party of Queensland?
On 1 December 2009, a subsequent leadership election saw Turnbull lose the leadership to Tony Abbott by 42 votes to 41 on the second ballot	How close was the race betwen Turnbull and Abbott in 2009?
The party's leader is Malcolm Turnbull and its deputy leader is Julie Bishop	Who is the Australian Liberal Party's leader?
A West Australian Liberal, Ken Wyatt, became the first Indigenous Australian elected to the House of Representatives in 2010	Who was the first indigenous Australian elected to the House?
The Liberal Party's organisation is dominated by the six state divisions, reflecting the party's original commitment to a federalised system of government 	How many state divisions exist in the Liberal Party's organisation?
Menzies ran strongly against Labor's plans to nationalise the Australian banking system and, following victory in the 1949 election, secured a double dissolution election for April 1951, after the Labor-controlled Senate refused to pass his banking legislation	Was Menzies for or against nationalizing the banking system in Australia?
A period of division for the Liberals followed, with former Treasurer John Howard competing with former Foreign Minister Andrew Peacock for supremacy	Which two title holders fought for political power in the early 1990s?
In South Australia, initially a Liberal and Country Party affiliated party, the Liberal and Country League , mostly led by Premier of South Australia Tom Playford, was in power from the 1933 election to the 1965 election, though with assistance from an electoral malapportionment, or gerrymander, known as the Playmander	How long was Tom Playford in political power?
"According to translator William Scott Wilson: ""In Chinese, the character 侍 was originally a verb meaning ""to wait upon"" or ""accompany persons"" in the upper ranks of society, and this is also true of the original term in Japanese, saburau"	What was William Scott Wilson's occupation?
By the end of the 12th century, samurai became almost entirely synonymous with bushi, and the word was closely associated with the middle and upper echelons of the warrior class	What did samurai mean nearly the same thing as?
Following the Battle of Hakusukinoe against Tang China and Silla in 663 AD that led to a Japanese retreat from Korean affairs, Japan underwent widespread reform	When was the Battle of Hakusukinoe?
In the early Heian period, the late 8th and early 9th centuries, Emperor Kammu sought to consolidate and expand his rule in northern Honshū, but the armies he sent to conquer the rebellious Emishi people lacked motivation and discipline, and failed in their task	In what period did Emperor Kammu rule?
After the Genpei war of the late 12th century, a clan leader Minamoto no Yoritomo obtained the right to appoint shugo and jito, and was allowed to organize soldiers and police, and to collect a certain amount of tax	When was the Genpei war?
Their involvement in the Hōgen in the late Heian period consolidated their power, and finally pitted the rival Minamoto and Taira clans against each other in the Heiji Rebellion of 1160	What rebellion happened in 1160?
The winner, Taira no Kiyomori, became an imperial advisor, and was the first warrior to attain such a position	Who was the first warrior to become imperial advisor?
The Taira and the Minamoto clashed again in 1180, beginning the Gempei War, which ended in 1185	When did the Gempei War begin?
In 1274, the Mongol-founded Yuan dynasty in China sent a force of some 40,000 men and 900 ships to invade Japan in northern Kyūshū	Which Chinese dynasty was founded by Mongols?
The Japanese defenders recognized the possibility of a renewed invasion, and began construction of a great stone barrier around Hakata Bay in 1276	What was built around Hakata Bay?
In 1592, and again in 1597, Toyotomi Hideyoshi, aiming to invade China through Korea, mobilized an army of 160,000 peasants and samurai and deployed them to Korea	When did Toyotomi Hideyoshi first send an army to Korea?
It should be noted that many samurai forces that were active throughout this period were not deployed to Korea; most importantly, the daimyo Tokugawa Ieyasu carefully kept forces under his command out of the Korean campaigns, and other samurai commanders who were opposed to Hideyoshi's domination of Japan either mulled Hideyoshi's call to invade Korea or contributed a small token force	Which military leader avoided sending his soldiers to Korea?
Oda Nobunaga made innovations in the fields of organization and war tactics, heavily used arquebuses, developed commerce and industry and treasured innovation	Who used arquebuses a lot?
During the Tokugawa shogunate, samurai increasingly became courtiers, bureaucrats, and administrators rather than warriors	When were samurai becoming less warrior-like?
Theoretical obligations between a samurai and his lord increased from the Genpei era to the Edo era	Who were most samurais' lords?
The relative peace of the Tokugawa era was shattered with the arrival of Commodore Matthew Perry's massive U	Who lead the US Navy's invasion of Japan?
From 1854, the samurai army and the navy were modernized	When was the samurai military modernized?
Emperor Meiji abolished the samurai's right to be the only armed force in favor of a more modern, western-style, conscripted army in 1873	Who established a western-style army in Japan?
Samurai were many of the early exchange students, not directly because they were samurai, but because many samurai were literate and well-educated scholars	What group made up most of Japan's first exchange students?
The philosophies of Buddhism and Zen, and to a lesser extent Confucianism and Shinto, influenced the samurai culture	What philosophies were the samurai influenced by?
"In the 13th century, Hōjō Shigetoki wrote: ""When one is serving officially or in the master's court, he should not think of a hundred or a thousand people, but should consider only the importance of the master"	When was Hojo Shigetoki born?
"""First of all, a samurai who dislikes battle and has not put his heart in the right place even though he has been born in the house of the warrior, should not be reckoned among one's retainers"	What does a samurai has his heart in the wrong place dislike?
Katō Kiyomasa was one of the most powerful and well-known lords of the Sengoku Era	When was Kato Kiyomasa in power?
Torii Mototada was a feudal lord in the service of Tokugawa Ieyasu	Who did Torii Mototada serve?
"The rival of Takeda Shingen was Uesugi Kenshin , a legendary Sengoku warlord well-versed in the Chinese military classics and who advocated the ""way of the warrior as death"""	Who was Takeda's rival?
Paul Varley notes the description of Japan given by Jesuit leader St	What religious order was St. Francis Xavier in?
In December 1547, Francis was in Malacca waiting to return to Goa when he met a low-ranked samurai named Anjiro 	Where was Malacca?
"In his book ""Ideals of the Samurai"" translator William Scott Wilson states: ""The warriors in the Heike Monogatari served as models for the educated warriors of later generations, and the ideals depicted by them were not assumed to be beyond reach"	Who wrote 'Ideals of the Samurai'?
As aristocrats for centuries, samurai developed their own cultures that influenced Japanese culture as a whole	Whose culture included tea ceremonies?
"For example, the full name of Oda Nobunaga would be ""Oda Kazusanosuke Saburo Nobunaga"" , in which ""Oda"" is a clan or family name, ""Kazusanosuke"" is a title of vice-governor of Kazusa province, ""Saburo"" is a formal nickname , and ""Nobunaga"" is an adult name given at genpuku, the coming of age ceremony"	What was Oda Nobunaga's full name?
In many cases, taking a concubine was akin to a marriage	How did the samurai treat concubines?
A samurai could divorce his wife for a variety of reasons with approval from a superior, but divorce was, while not entirely nonexistent, a rare event	How common was divorce for samurai?
Maintaining the household was the main duty of samurai women	What did samurai wives spend most of their time on?
Traits valued in women of the samurai class were humility, obedience, self-control, strength, and loyalty	What characteristics did samurais want their wives to have?
After Ashikaga Yoshimasa, 8th shogun of the Muromachi shogunate, lost interest in politics, his wife Hino Tomiko largely ruled in his place	Who was Ashikaga Yoshimasa?
As the Tokugawa period progressed more value became placed on education, and the education of females beginning at a young age became important to families and society as a whole	In what period did Japanese women begin being more educated?
The English sailor and adventurer William Adams was the first Westerner to receive the dignity of samurai	Who was the first Western samurai?
), a Dutch colleague of Adams' on their ill-fated voyage to Japan in the ship De Liefde, was also given similar privileges by Tokugawa Ieyasu	What nationality was Jan Joosten van Lodensteijn?
In the same war, the Prussian Edward Schnell served the Aizu domain as a military instructor and procurer of weapons	What nationality was Edward Schnell?
As far back as the seventh century Japanese warriors wore a form of lamellar armor, this armor eventually evolved into the armor worn by the samurai	What type of armor did Japanese wear in the 7th century?
In the 1500s a new type of armor started to become popular due to the advent of firearms, new fighting tactics and the need for additional protection	Why were there armor changes in the 1500s?
"The term samurai originally meant ""those who serve in close attendance to nobility"", and was written with a Chinese character that had the same meaning"	What did 'samurai' mean at first?
Bushi was the name given to the ancient Japanese soldiers from traditional warrior families	Who were the bushi class?
) or hara kiri, which allowed a disgraced samurai to regain his honor by passing into death, where samurai were still beholden to social rules	What was a synonym for seppuku?
, Akechi Mitsuhide), cowardly, brave, or overly loyal (e	Who was an example of a disloyal samurai?
Jidaigeki has always been a staple program on Japanese movies and television	What is Jidaigeki?
Eiji Yoshikawa is one of the most famous Japanese historical novelists	Who is Eiji Yoshikawa?
The animated series, Afro Samurai, became well-liked in American popular culture due to its blend of hack-and-slash animation and gritty urban music	What kind of animation did Afro Samurai have?
Created by Takashi Okazaki, Afro Samurai was initially a doujinshi, or manga series, which was then made into an animated series by Studio Gonzo	Who created Afro Samurai?
American comic books have adopted the character type for stories of their own like the mutant-villain Silver Samurai of Marvel Comics	In what company's comics did Silver Samurai appear?
As a result, software testing typically attempts to execute a program or application with the intent of finding software bugs 	What is the purpose of testing software?
Although testing can determine the correctness of software under the assumption of some specific hypotheses , testing cannot identify all the defects within software	What can testing not completely find?
A primary purpose of testing is to detect software failures so that defects may be discovered and corrected	What is the primamry reason for testing software?
A programmer makes an error , which results in a defect in the software source code	What is the first step that leads to a software failure?
:17-18 This means that the number of defects in a software product can be very large and defects that occur infrequently are difficult to find in testing	What types of software bugs are difficult to find during testing?
Software developers can't test everything, but they can use combinatorial test design to identify the minimum number of tests needed to get the coverage they want	Although software developers are unable to test everything, what do they run to keep the testing to a minimum? 
It is commonly believed that the earlier a defect is found, the cheaper it is to fix it	What determines the cost of fixing a bug?
Reviews, walkthroughs, or inspections are referred to as static testing, whereas actually executing programmed code with a given set of test cases is referred to as dynamic testing	Name three approaches software testers take when testing their software?
White-box testing tests internal structures or workings of a program, as opposed to the functionality exposed to the end-user	What is another term used for White-box testing?
"Black-box testing treats the software as a ""black box"", examining functionality without any knowledge of internal implementation, without seeing the source code"	What is the main difference between black-box testing and white-box testing?
Specification-based testing aims to test the functionality of software according to the applicable requirements	What term is used to test functionality of the software accordingly with the application requirements?
One advantage of the black box technique is that no programming knowledge is required	What is one huge advantage to using the black-box method?
Grey-box testing involves having knowledge of internal data structures and algorithms for purposes of designing tests, while executing those tests at the user, or black-box level	What does grey-box testing involve?
Typically, a grey-box tester will be permitted to set up an isolated testing environment with activities such as seeding a database	What dopes a typical grey-box tester sets up?
There are generally four recognized levels of tests: unit testing, integration testing, component interface testing, and system testing	What are the four recognized levels of testing software?
Unit testing is a software development process that involves synchronized application of a broad spectrum of defect prevention and detection strategies in order to reduce software development risks, time, and costs	What is the main reasoning behind Unit testing that involves synchronization of the application on a broad spectrum? 
The practice of component interface testing can be used to check the handling of data passed between various units, or subsystem components, beyond full integration testing between those units	What is it called to check data passed between units?
Operational Acceptance is used to conduct operational readiness of a product, service or system as part of a quality management system	What is the term used to test software during a pre-release?
A common cause of software failure is a lack of its compatibility with other application software, operating systems , or target environments that differ greatly from the original 	What is the most common reason for software failure?
Regression testing focuses on finding defects after a major code change has occurred	Finding defects once a change in code had already happened is called?
Beta testing comes after alpha testing and can be considered a form of external user acceptance testing	What typically comes after the Alpha stage in the development and testing of software?
Destructive testing attempts to cause the software or a sub-system to fail	What method is used to cause a system to fail?
Load testing is primarily concerned with testing that the system can continue to operate under a specific load, whether that be large quantities of data or a large number of users	What method is used to test software under a specific load?
Development Testing is a software development process that involves synchronized application of a broad spectrum of defect prevention and detection strategies in order to reduce software development risks, time, and costs	What method is used that involves synchronization of a application?
"In contrast, some emerging software disciplines such as extreme programming and the agile software development movement, adhere to a ""test-driven software development"" model"	"Which two current movements adhere to the ""test-driven software development""?"
Bottom Up Testing is an approach to integrated testing where the lowest level components are tested first, then integrated and used to facilitate the testing of higher level components	What three components make up Bottom Up Testing?
However, if the number of states is not known, then it only belongs to all classes from Class II on	If the number of states is unknown, what group does this fall into?
No certification now offered actually requires the applicant to show their ability to test software	With several certifications out there that can be aquired, what is the one trait they all share?
Software testing is a part of the software quality assurance process	What makes up part of the SQA?
Germany is a federal republic consisting of sixteen federal states 	How many states are in Germany?
The creation of the Federal Republic of Germany in 1949 was through the unification of the western states created in the aftermath of World War II	When was the Federal Republic of Germany created
In 1952, following a referendum, Baden, Württemberg-Baden, and Württemberg-Hohenzollern merged into Baden-Württemberg	Which city did Baden, Württemberg-Baden, and Württemberg-Hohenzollern merge into?
Federalism is one of the entrenched constitutional principles of Germany	What is an entrenched constitutional principle in Germany?
The use of the term Länder dates back to the Weimar Constitution of 1919	What does the term Länder date back to?
"A new delimitation of the federal territory keeps being debated in Germany, though ""Some scholars note that there are significant differences among the American states and regional governments in other federations without serious calls for territorial changes"	What keeps being debated in Germany?
The Holy Roman Empire comprised many petty states numbering more than 300 around 1796	The Holy Roman Empire comprised of how many petty states? 
During the Allied occupation of Germany after World War II, internal borders were redrawn by the Allied military governments	Who redrew Germany's internal borders after World War II?
Upon its founding in 1949, West Germany had eleven states	How many states did West Germany have at its founding?
U	What states merged to form Saarland in 1952?
Later, the constitution was amended to state that the citizens of the 16 states had successfully achieved the unity of Germany in free self-determination and that the Basic Law thus applied to the entire German people	What was the German constitution later amended to say about the citizens of the 16 states?
A new delimitation of the federal territory has been discussed since the Federal Republic was founded in 1949 and even before	What has been discussed since the Federal Republic was founded in 1949?
The debate on a new delimitation of the German territory started in 1919 as part of discussions about the new constitution	When did the debate on delimitation begin in Germany?
After the Nazi Party seized power in January 1933, the Länder increasingly lost importance	When did the Nazi Party seize power?
There was a binding provision for a new delimitation of the federal territory: the Federal Territory must be revised	In the revision of Article 29, what was a binding provision for a new delimitation of the federal territory?
"In the Paris Agreements of 23 October 1954, France offered to establish an independent ""Saarland"", under the auspices of the Western European Union , but on 23 October 1955 in the Saar Statute referendum the Saar electorate rejected this plan by 67"	In what negotiation did France offer to establish the independent Saarland?
Paragraph 6 of Article 29 stated that if a petition was successful a referendum should be held within three years	Paragraph 6 of Article 29 states that a referendum, in the event of a successful petition should be held within how many years?
In his investiture address, given on 28 October 1969 in Bonn, Chancellor Willy Brandt proposed that the government would consider Article 29 of the Basic Law as a binding order	What did Chancellor Willy Brandt propose in his 28 October 1969 address?
"The Basic Law of the Federal Republic of Germany, the federal constitution, stipulates that the structure of each Federal State's government must ""conform to the principles of republican, democratic, and social government, based on the rule of law"" "	"Which article stipulates that the structure of each Federal State's government must ""conform to the principles of republican, democratic, and social government, based on the rule of law""?"
The governments in Berlin, Bremen and Hamburg are designated by the term Senate	What are the governments in Berlin, Bremen and Hamburg called?
"The Districts of Germany are administrative districts, and every state except the city-states of Berlin, Hamburg, and Bremen consists of ""rural districts"" , District-free Towns/Cities , cities that are districts in their own right, or local associations of a special kind , see below"	What are the districts of Germany considered?
Local associations of a special kind are an amalgamation of one or more Landkreise with one or more Kreisfreie Städte to form a replacement of the aforementioned administrative entities at the district level	Local associations of a special kind are an amalgamation of one or more Landkreise with what?
Municipalities : Every rural district and every Amt is subdivided into municipalities, while every urban district is a municipality in its own right	Every rural district is subdivided into what?
""" Under this broad statement of competence, local governments can justify a wide range of activities"	Municipalities have how many major policy responsibilities?
In southwestern Germany, territorial revision seemed to be a top priority since the border between the French and American occupation zones was set along the Autobahn Karlsruhe-Stuttgart-Ulm 	What was territorial revision considered in southeastern Germany?
Glass can be colored by adding metallic salts, and can also be painted and printed with vitreous enamels	What ingredient makes glass colorful?
 Iron can be incorporated into glass to absorb infrared energy, for example in heat absorbing filters for movie projectors, while cerium oxide can be used for glass that absorbs UV wavelengths	What element is used in glass to keep it from becoming too hot?
One is sodium carbonate , which lowers the glass transition temperature	What causes glass to dissolve in water?
After melting, homogenization and refining , the glass is formed	What happens during refining?
This may be modified by adding low-density materials such as boron, which lowers the index of refraction , or increased (to as much as 1	What can be used to make glass less refractive?
"The most familiar, and historically the oldest, types of glass are ""silicate glasses"" based on the chemical compound silica , the primary constituent of sand"	Which kinds of glass existed the furthest in the past?
Glass does not contain the internal subdivisions associated with grain boundaries in polycrystals and hence does not scatter light in the same manner as a polycrystalline material	What does glass lack, allowing it to be transparent?
Naturally occurring glass, especially the volcanic glass obsidian, has been used by many Stone Age societies across the globe for the production of sharp cutting tools and, due to its limited source areas, was extensively traded	What kind of glass exists in nature?
Manganese dioxide can be added in small amounts to remove the green tint given by iron oxide	What can prevent a green color in glass?
It was in the Roman glassmaking center at Trier, now in modern Germany, that the late-Latin term glesum originated, probably from a Germanic word for a transparent, lustrous substance	"What word does ""glass"" come from?"
Stained glass had a major revival with Gothic Revival architecture in the 19th-century	When did stained glass make a big comeback?
In the 20th century, new types of glass such as laminated glass, reinforced glass and glass bricks have increased the use of glass as a building material and resulted in new applications of glass	What type of glass is used in cars?
Louis Comfort Tiffany in America specialized in stained glass, both secular and religious, and his famous lamps	What famous lampmaker used glass?
The viscosity decrease of lead glass melt is very significant ; this allows easier removal of bubbles and working at lower temperatures, hence its frequent use as an additive in vitreous enamels and glass solders	How much less viscous is lead glass compared with soda glass?
The network formers form a highly cross-linked network of chemical bonds	What components of glass for networks?
The alkali metal ions are small and mobile; their presence in glass allows a degree of electrical conductivity, especially in molten state or at high temperature	What component gives glass the ability to conduct electricity?
, sodium selenite may be preferred over easily evaporating SeO2	What material is useful in glassmaking because of its slow evaporation?
These are known as bulk metallic glasses 	What are thick alloys made in layers called?
In 2004, NIST researchers presented evidence that an isotropic non-crystalline metallic phase could be grown from the melt	Who showed that q-glass could be produced from a melt?
When applied to whiteware ceramics, vitreous means the material has an extremely low permeability to liquids, often but not always water, when determined by a specified test regime	What word means that ceramics don't absorb liquids?
This type of glass-ceramic exhibits excellent mechanical properties and can sustain repeated and quick temperature changes up to 1000 °C	How high of a temperature change can glass-ceramics handle?
These sheets were cut into smaller window panes with nonuniform thickness, typically with the location of the pour centered in one of the panes for decorative effect	What were the areas at the center of an old sheet of glass called?
When installed in a window frame, the glass would be placed with the thicker side down both for the sake of stability and to prevent water accumulating in the lead cames at the bottom of the window	What was the benefit of installing glass with the thick side at the bottom, in addition to avoiding water accumulation?
In physics, the standard definition of a glass is a solid formed by rapid melt quenching	"How is ""glass"" defined in physics?"
Some people consider glass to be a liquid due to its lack of a first-order phase transition where certain thermodynamic variables such as volume, entropy and enthalpy are discontinuous through the glass transition range	What does glass not have, leading some to think it is a liquid?
Although the atomic structure of glass shares characteristics of the structure in a supercooled liquid, glass tends to behave as a solid below its glass transition temperature	Atomically, glass is similar to what?
First recognized in 1900 by Max Planck, it was originally the proportionality constant between the minimal increment of energy, E, of a hypothetical electrically charged oscillator in a cavity that contained black body radiation, and the frequency, f, of its associated electromagnetic wave	What is energy abbreviated to in science?
f	What is frequency also known as in science?
Classical statistical mechanics requires the existence of h 	Classical statistical mechanics requires the existence of what?
h	What does modern statistics mechanics not define the value of?
h	What is not required to exist in modern statistics mechanics?
Equivalently, the smallness of the Planck constant reflects the fact that everyday objects and systems are made of a large number of particles	What does the smallness of the Planck constant show?
In the last years of the nineteenth century, Planck was investigating the problem of black-body radiation first posed by Kirchhoff some forty years earlier	What was Planck studying in the last part of the nineteenth century?
The assumption that black-body radiation is thermal leads to an accurate prediction: the total amount of emitted energy goes up with the temperature according to a definite rule, the Stefan–Boltzmann law 	What assumption that black-body radiation is what leads to an accurate prediction?
Prior to Planck's work, it had been assumed that the energy of a body could take on any value whatsoever – that it was a continuous variable	Before Planck, it was assumed that the energy of a body could take on what value?
h	In making Planck's law, what was in both the numerator and denominator of the formula that was used?
h	What in making Planck's law was in neither the numerator and denominator of the formula that was used?
The black-body problem was revisited in 1905, when Rayleigh and Jeans and Einstein independently proved that classical electromagnetism could never account for the observed spectrum	Einstein and what other two individuals revisited the black-body problem in 1905?
It was first observed by Alexandre Edmond Becquerel in 1839, although credit is usually reserved for Heinrich Hertz, who published the first thorough investigation in 1887	Who first observed the photoelectric effect?
"Prior to Einstein's paper, electromagnetic radiation such as visible light was considered to behave as a wave: hence the use of the terms ""frequency"" and ""wavelength"" to characterise different types of radiation"	Before Einstein, electromagnetic radiation was considered to behave as what?
"The ""photoelectrons"" emitted as a result of the photoelectric effect have a certain kinetic energy, which can be measured"	What is emitted as a result of the photoelectric effect?
Niels Bohr introduced the first quantized model of the atom in 1913, in an attempt to overcome a major shortcoming of Rutherford's classical model	Who introduced the first quantized model of the atom?
Bohr also introduced the quantity , now known as the reduced Planck constant, as the quantum of angular momentum	Who introduced the reduced Planck constant?
The either-or nature of uncertainty forces measurement attempts to choose between trade offs, and given that they are quanta, the trade offs often take the form of either-or , rather than the compromises and gray areas of time series analysis	What forces measurement attempts to choose between trade-offs, in quanta?
The Bohr magneton and the nuclear magneton are units which are used to describe the magnetic properties of the electron and atomic nuclei respectively	What is the unit of magentic properties of the electron?
In principle, the Planck constant could be determined by examining the spectrum of a black-body radiator or the kinetic energy of photoelectrons, and this is how its value was first calculated in the early twentieth century	How was the Planck constant calculated in the early 20th century?
The practical difficulties can be illustrated by the fact that the two most accurate methods, the watt balance and the X-ray crystal density method, do not appear to agree with one another	What is a main practical difficulty in determining n?
The theoretical difficulties arise from the fact that all of the methods except the X-ray crystal density method rely on the theoretical basis of the Josephson effect and the quantum Hall effect	Other than the X-ray crystal density method, other methods rely on what two effects?
A watt balance is an instrument for comparing two powers, one of which is measured in SI watts and the other of which is measured in conventional electrical units	What is a watt balance?
The gyromagnetic ratio γ is the constant of proportionality between the frequency ν of nuclear magnetic resonance and the applied magnetic field B: ν = γB	The gyromagnetic ratio is the constant proportion between the magentic field and what?
"In addition, there are two methods of measuring the value, a ""low-field"" method and a ""high-field"" method, and the conversion factors are different in the two cases"	How many methods of measuring the gyromagnetic ratio are there?
The Faraday constant F is the charge of one mole of electrons, equal to the Avogadro constant NA multiplied by the elementary charge e	What is the Faraday constant?
The X-ray crystal density method is primarily a method for determining the Avogadro constant NA but as the Avogadro constant is related to the Planck constant it also determines a value for h	What is the primary method for determining the Avogadro constant?
The most urgent unit on the list for redefinition is the kilogram, whose value has been fixed for all science by the mass of a small cylinder of platinum–iridium alloy kept in a vault just outside Paris	What measurement is deemed most important to redefine in terms of physical constants?
The legal process to change the definition of the kilogram is already underway, but it had been decided that no final decision would be made before the next meeting of the General Conference on Weights and Measures in 2011	Where would the decision to change the definition of the kilogram have occured at the earliest?
"Public policy and political leadership helps to ""level the playing field"" and drive the wider acceptance of renewable energy technologies"	What drives the wider acceptance of renewable energy technologies?
Total investment in renewable energy was $244 billion in 2012, down 12% from 2011 mainly due to dramatically lower solar prices and weakened US and EU markets	How much was the total investment in renewable energy in 2012?
EU member countries have shown support for ambitious renewable energy goals	Who has shown support for ambitious renewable energy goals?
By the end of 2011, total renewable power capacity worldwide exceeded 1,360 GW, up 8%	By the end of 2011, total renewable power capacity worldwide exceeded what number?
"In 2011, UN under-secretary general Achim Steiner said: ""The continuing growth in this core segment of the green economy is not happening by chance"	Who was the UN under-secretary in 2011?
According to a 2011 projection by the International Energy Agency, solar power plants may produce most of the world's electricity within 50 years, significantly reducing the emissions of greenhouse gases that harm the environment	Which group projected that solar plant may produce most of the world's electricity within 50 years?
In 2013, China led the world in renewable energy production, with a total capacity of 378 GW, mainly from hydroelectric and wind power	Who led the world in renewable energy production in 2013?
Renewable energy technologies are getting cheaper, through technological change and through the benefits of mass production and market competition	What is getting cheaper as a result of technilogical change?
Renewable energy is also the most economic solution for new grid-connected capacity in areas with good resources	What is the most economic solution for new grid-connected capacity in areas with good resources?
One of the problems of biomass is that material directly combusted in cook stoves produces pollutants, leading to severe health and environmental consequences, although improved cook stove programmes are alleviating some of these effects	What is one problem with biomass?
Hydroelectricity is the term referring to electricity generated by hydropower; the production of electrical power through the use of the gravitational force of falling or flowing water	What is the term referring to electricity generated by hydropower?
Hydropower is produced in 150 countries, with the Asia-Pacific region generating 32 percent of global hydropower in 2010	Hydropower is produced in how many countries?
Geothermal power capacity grew from around 1 GW in 1975 to almost 10 GW in 2008	What was the geothermal capacity in 1975?
Many solar photovoltaic power stations have been built, mainly in Europe	Where have the majority of photovoltaic power stations been built?
The Desert Sunlight Solar Farm under construction in Riverside County, California and Topaz Solar Farm being built in San Luis Obispo County, California are both 550 MW solar parks that will use thin-film solar photovoltaic modules made by First Solar	Where is Desert Sunlight Solar Farm currently under construction?
Global wind power installations increased by 35,800 MW in 2010, bringing total installed capacity up to 194,400 MW, a 22	Global wind power installations increased by how much in 2010?
As of 2014, the wind industry in the USA is able to produce more power at lower cost by using taller wind turbines with longer blades, capturing the faster winds at higher elevations	How is the wind industry in the USA able to produce more power at lower cost?
The 370 MW Ivanpah Solar Power Facility, located in California's Mojave Desert, is the world's largest solar-thermal power plant project currently under construction	Where is the Ivanpah Solar Power Facility located?
Nearly all the gasoline sold in the United States today is mixed with 10 percent ethanol, a mix known as E10, and motor vehicle manufacturers already produce vehicles designed to run on much higher ethanol blends	Nearly all gasoline sold in the U.S. is mixed with what percentage of ethanol?
Cellulosic ethanol can be made from plant matter composed primarily of inedible cellulose fibers that form the stems and branches of most plants	What can be made from plant matter composed primarily of inedible celllose fibers thta form the stems and branches of most plants?
As of 2008, geothermal power development was under way in more than 40 countries, partially attributable to the development of new technologies, such as Enhanced Geothermal Systems	As of 2008, geothermal power development was underway in more than how many countries?
The PV industry has seen drops in module prices since 2008	The PV industry has seen drops in module prices since what year?
Newer and cleaner technologies may offer social and environmental benefits, but utility operators often reject renewable resources because they are trained to think only in terms of big, conventional power plants	Why do utility operators often reject renewable resources?
"Lester Brown states that the market ""does not incorporate the indirect costs of providing goods or services into prices, it does not value nature's services adequately, and it does not respect the sustainable-yield thresholds of natural systems"""	Lester Brown states that the market does not incorporate what?
Tax shifting has been widely discussed and endorsed by economists	What involves lowering income taxes while raising levies?
Just as there is a need for tax shifting, there is also a need for subsidy shifting	Besides tax shifting, what is another need?
Renewable energy commercialization involves the deployment of three generations of renewable energy technologies dating back more than 100 years	As of 2012, what accounts for about half of new nameplate electrical capacity?
""" The International Solar Energy Society advocates ""leveling the playing field"" by redressing the continuing inequities in public subsidies of energy technologies and R&D, in which the fossil fuel and nuclear power receive the largest share of financial support"	What group advocates leveling the playing field?
Germany is reducing its coal subsidy	What country is reducing its coal subsidy?
Setting national renewable energy targets can be an important part of a renewable energy policy and these targets are usually defined as a percentage of the primary energy and/or electricity generation mix	Setting national renewable energy targets can be an important part of what?
Public policy determines the extent to which renewable energy is to be incorporated into a developed or developing country's generation mix	What determines the extent to which renewable energy is to be incorporated into a country's generation mix?
The driving force behind voluntary green electricity within the EU are the liberalized electricity markets and the RES Directive	What is the driving force behind voluntary green electricity within the EU?
Also in 2006, the Stern Review made a strong economic case for investing in low carbon technologies now, and argued that economic growth need not be incompatible with cutting energy consumption	What made a strong economic case for investing in low carbon technologies?
New government spending, regulation, and policies helped the industry weather the 2009 economic crisis better than many other sectors	What helped the industry weather the 2009 economic crisis better than other sectors?
As of 2012, renewable energy plays a major role in the energy mix of many countries globally	What plays a major role in the energy mix of many countries?
"United Nations' Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon has said that ""renewable energy has the ability to lift the poorest nations to new levels of prosperity"""	Who is United Nations' Secretary-General?
Solar electricity consumption increased by 58 percent, to 93 terawatt-hours 	In 2012, solar electricity consumption increased by what percentage?
The incentive to use 100% renewable energy, for electricity, transport, or even total primary energy supply globally, has been motivated by global warming and other ecological as well as economic concerns	What motivated the incentive to use 100 percent renewable energy?
"Barriers to implementing the renewable energy plan are seen to be ""primarily social and political, not technological or economic"""	What is a barrier to implementing the renewable energy plan?
"Similarly, in the United States, the independent National Research Council has noted that ""sufficient domestic renewable resources exist to allow renewable electricity to play a significant role in future electricity generation and thus help confront issues related to climate change, energy security, and the escalation of energy costs … Renewable energy is an attractive option because renewable resources available in the United States, taken collectively, can supply significantly greater amounts of electricity than the total current or projected domestic demand"	Why is renewable energy an attractive option?
The city is noted for its history, culture, architecture and gastronomy, playing an important role throughout much of its existence; it is over 2,700 years old	For what is Palermo known?
The city was founded in 734 BC by the Phoenicians as Ziz 	In what year was Palermo founded?
Numerous tourists are attracted to the city for its good Mediterranean weather, its renowned gastronomy and restaurants, its Romanesque, Gothic and Baroque churches, palaces and buildings, and its nightlife and music	What types of churches attract tourists to Palermo?
Palermo is surrounded by mountains, formed of calcar, which form a cirque around the city	What geographic form is Palermo surrounded by?
However, the shape of the former watercourses can still be recognised today, because the streets that were built on them follow their shapes	How can former rivers be recognised presently?
""" It became one of the three main Phoenician colonies of Sicily, along with Motya and Soluntum"	Besides Ziz, what other two major settlements belonged to the Phoenicians
"The first settlement is defined as Paleapolis , the Ancient Greek world for ""old city"", in order to distinguish it from a second settlement built during the 5th century BC, called Neapolis , ""new city"""	Why was the first settlement named Paleapolis?
Palermo came into contact with the Ancient Greeks between the 6th and the 5th centuries BC which preceded the Sicilian Wars, a conflict fought between the Greeks of Syracuse and the Phoenicians of Carthage for control over the island of Sicily	In which War did Greeks and Phoenicians fight over control of Sicily?
The Vandals had occupied all the Roman provinces in North Africa by 455 establishing themselves as a significant force	How had the Vandals earned their strong reputation?
Muslim rule on the island lasted for about 120 years and was marked by cruelty and brutality against the native population, which was reduced into near slavery and Christian churches across the island were all completely destroyed	How long did Muslim control of Palermo last?
The family who returned the city to Christianity were called the Hautevilles, including Robert Guiscard and his army, who is regarded as a hero by the natives	Who is considered a hero by natives for ending Muslim control of Palermo?
Sicily fell under the control of the Holy Roman Empire in 1194	What year did Sicily become ruled by the Holy Roman Empire?
After the Treaty of Utrecht , Sicily was handed over to the Savoia, but by 1734 it was again a Bourbon possession	After what treaty did Savoia gain control of Italy?
From 1820 to 1848 Sicily was shaken by upheavals, which culminated on 12 January 1848, with a popular insurrection, the first one in Europe that year, led by Giuseppe La Masa	Who led the first insurrection in Europe in 1848?
The Italian government blamed anarchists and the Church, specifically the Archbishop of Palermo, for the rebellion and began enacting anti-Sicilian and anti-clerical policies	Who was blamed for the week long rebellion of 1866?
The term is used to indicate the speculative building practices that have filled the city with poor buildings	"To what does the term ""Sack of Palermo"" refer?"
Palermo is one of the warmest cities in Europe , with an average annual air temperature of 18	How do Palermo's temperatures compare to the rest of Europe?
Via Vittorio Emanuele was the main road east-west through this early walled city	What was the name of the primary east-west road within the walls of Palaeopolis?
At this north-east corner there was a defence, Castello a Mare, to protect the port at La Cala	What was the purpose of Castello a Mare?
The cathedral has a heliometer of 1690, one of a number built in Italy in the 17th and 18th centuries	What is a heliometer?
The reason for Palermo's decline is a population flight to the suburbs, and to Northern Italy	Why has Palermo's population declined from 2001 to 2010?
The economy mainly relies on tourism and services, but also has commerce, shipbuilding and agriculture	On what does Palermo's economy rely?
The port of Palermo, founded by the Phoenicians over 2,700 years ago, is, together with the port of Messina, the main port of Sicily	Which port is Sicily's primary port?
The patron saint of Palermo is Santa Rosalia, who is widely revered	Who is the popular patron saint of Palermo?
By far the largest contributor to green in nature is chlorophyll, the chemical by which plants photosynthesize and convert sunlight into chemical energy	What, in nature, is most likely to make things green?
green is sometimes associated with death , sickness, or the devil, but in China its associations are very positive, as the symbol of fertility and happiness	What is green a symbol of in China?
"Thus, the languages mentioned above have old terms for ""green"" which are derived from words for fresh, sprouting vegetation"	"Germanic, Romance, Slavic, and Greek all has old terms for ""green"" which are derived from words for what?"
Japanese also has two terms that refer specifically to the color green, 緑 and グリーン 	How many terms does Japanese have for the color green?
"Thus, the Thai word เขียว besides meaning ""green"" also means ""rank"" and ""smelly"" and holds other unpleasant associations"	"In which language does the word for ""green"" also mean ""rank"" and ""smelly""?"
In the subtractive color system, used in painting and color printing, green is created by a combination of yellow and blue, or yellow and cyan; in the RGB color model, used on television and computer screens, it is one of the additive primary colors, along with red and blue, which are mixed in different combinations to create all other colors	In which color system is green created by combining yellow and blue?
A unique green is produced on such a device by mixing light from the green primary with some light from the blue primary	What is produced on a computer display when light from the green primary is mixed with some light from the blue primary?
Lasers emitting in the green part of the spectrum are widely available to the general public in a wide range of output powers	Which color of lasers are widely available to the general public?
Pigments, in this case, are minerals which reflect the color green, rather that emitting it through luminescent or phosphorescent qualities	What do pigments do with the color green?
Verdigris is made by placing a plate or blade of copper, brass or bronze, slightly warmed, into a vat of fermenting wine, leaving it there for several weeks, and then scraping off and drying the green powder that forms on the metal	What is made by placing a plate of blade of copper, brass, or bronze into vat of fermenting wine for several weeks, then scraping off and drying the green powder?
Green S is prohibited in many countries, for it is known to cause hyperactivity, asthma, urticaria, and insomnia	Which green food coloring is known to cause hyperactivity, asthma, urticaria, and insomnia?
To create green sparks, fireworks use barium salts, such as barium chlorate, barium nitrate crystals, or barium chloride, also used for green fireplace logs	How do fireworks create green sparks?
Green is common in nature, as many plants are green because of a complex chemical known as chlorophyll, which is involved in photosynthesis	Why are many plants green?
Animals typically use the color green as camouflage, blending in with the chlorophyll green of the surrounding environment	How do animals typically use the color green?
There is no green pigment in green eyes; like the color of blue eyes, it is an optical illusion; its appearance is caused by the combination of an amber or light brown pigmentation of the stroma, given by a low or moderate concentration of melanin, with the blue tone imparted by the Rayleigh scattering of the reflected light	What is the appearance of green in th eyes attributed to?
In Ancient Egypt green was the symbol of regeneration and rebirth, and of the crops made possible by the annual flooding of the Nile	Which color was the symbol to regeneration and rebirth in Ancient Egypt?
The hieroglyph for green represented a growing papyrus sprout, showing the close connection between green, vegetation, vigor and growth	What is the ancient Egyptian hieroglyph for green?
Aristotle considered that green was located midway between black, symbolizing the earth, and white, symbolizing water	Which ancient greek philosopher considered green to be located midway between black and white?
The Romans had a greater appreciation for the color green; it was the color of Venus, the goddess of gardens, vegetables and vineyards	What color did the Romans attribute to Venus, the goddess of gardens, vegetables, and vineyards?
Green dyes were made out of the fern, plantain, buckthorn berries, the juice of nettles and of leeks, the digitalis plant, the broom plant, the leaves of the fraxinus, or ash tree, and the bark of the alder tree, but they rapidly faded or changed color	Why were vegetal green dyes less than ideal?
In the 18th and 19th century, green was associated with the romantic movement in literature and art	When was green associated with the romantic movement in literature and art?
The late nineteenth century also brought the systematic study of color theory, and particularly the study of how complementary colors such as red and green reinforced each other when they were placed next to each other	When did the systematic study of color theory begin?
Green and red were standardized as the colors of international railroad signals in the 19th century	When were green and red standardized as the colors of international railroad signs?
" The intoxicating drink absinthe was known as ""the green fairy"""	What was absinthe known as?
The 1977 flag of Libya consisted of a simple green field with no other characteristics	Which country had a flag in 1977 that was only green?
The largest green party in Europe is Alliance '90/The Greens in Germany, which was formed in 1993 from the merger of the German Green Party, founded in West Germany in 1980, and Alliance 90, founded during the Revolution of 1989–1990 in East Germany	What is the largest green party in Europe?
Roman Catholic and more traditional Protestant clergy wear green vestments at liturgical celebrations during Ordinary Time	What color vestments do Roman Catholic and traditional Protestant clergy wear at liturgical celebrations during Ordinary time?
Zinc is a chemical element with symbol Zn and atomic number 30	What is the symbol for Zinc?
Brass, which is an alloy of copper and zinc, has been used since at least the 10th century BC in Judea and by the 7th century BC in Ancient Greece	What two metals are mixed to create Brass?
The element was probably named by the alchemist Paracelsus after the German word Zinke 	Who named the element zinc?
T	What does the name zinc or zinke mean?
Zinc deficiency affects about two billion people in the developing world and is associated with many diseases	How many people are affected by zinc deficiency?
Zinc is a bluish-white, lustrous, diamagnetic metal, though most common commercial grades of the metal have a dull finish	What color is zinc?
Several dozen radioisotopes have been characterized	How many radioisotopes of zinc have been discovered?
The chemistry of zinc is dominated by the +2 oxidation state	What oxidation state dominates zinc?
The ionic radii of zinc and magnesium happen to be nearly identical	The ionic radii of what two elements are almost identical?
Zinc compounds are rare, and require bulky ligands to stabilize the low oxidation state	What is necessary to stabilize the low oxidation state of zinc compounds?
Binary compounds of zinc are known for most of the metalloids and all the nonmetals except the noble gases	What is not known for binary compounds of zinc?
In stronger alkaline solutions, this hydroxide is dissolved to form zincates 4]2−)	Zn2 is dissolved to form what in strong alkaline solutions?
The Charaka Samhita, thought to have been written between 300 and 500 AD, mentions a metal which, when oxidized, produces pushpanjan, thought to be zinc oxide	Zinc oxide is believed to be mentioned in what ancient text?
"The name of the metal was probably first documented by Paracelsus, a Swiss-born German alchemist, who referred to the metal as ""zincum"" or ""zinken"" in his book Liber Mineralium II, in the 16th century"	Who is attributed as first documenting zinc?
William Champion's brother, John, patented a process in 1758 for calcining zinc sulfide into an oxide usable in the retort process	Who first patented the process that creates an oxide usable in the retort process?
After grinding the ore, froth flotation, which selectively separates minerals from gangue by taking advantage of differences in their hydrophobicity, is used to get an ore concentrate	What is froth flotation used for?
The production for sulfidic zinc ores produces large amounts of sulfur dioxide and cadmium vapor	Large amounts of sulfur dioxide and cadmium vapor are produced due to what?
Zinc is more reactive than iron or steel and thus will attract almost all local oxidation until it completely corrodes away	What two compounds is zinc more reactive than?
The relative reactivity of zinc and its ability to attract oxidation to itself makes it an efficient sacrificial anode in cathodic protection 	What makes zinc an efficient sacrificial anode?
Zinc is also used in contemporary pipe organs as a substitute for the traditional lead/tin alloy in pipes	What has zinc replaced in pipe organs?
Alloys of primarily zinc with small amounts of copper, aluminium, and magnesium are useful in die casting as well as spin casting, especially in the automotive, electrical, and hardware industries	Aside from die casting, what are alloys of zinc mixed with copper, aluminium and magnesium used for?
Similar alloys with the addition of a small amount of lead can be cold-rolled into sheets	What can be done when small amounts of lead are added to alloys?
Roughly one quarter of all zinc output in the United States , is consumed in the form of zinc compounds; a variety of which are used industrially	In what form is 1/4 of zinc used in the US?
Zinc chloride is often added to lumber as a fire retardant and can be used as a wood preservative	What is added to wood in order to preserve it?
64Zn, the most abundant isotope of zinc, is very susceptible to neutron activation, being transmuted into the highly radioactive 65Zn, which has a half-life of 244 days and produces intense gamma radiation	What is the most abundant zinc isotope?
Zinc is included in most single tablet over-the-counter daily vitamin and mineral supplements	What consumable product is zinc included in?
Although not yet tested as a therapy in humans, a growing body of evidence indicates that zinc may preferentially kill prostate cancer cells	What kind of cancer cells may zinc prove to kill?
The Barbier reaction is the zinc equivalent of the magnesium Grignard reaction and is better of the two	What is the zinc equivalent of the Grinard reaction?
Zinc serves a purely structural role in zinc fingers, twists and clusters	What role does zinc play in fingers, twists and clusters?
A 1998 review concluded that zinc oxide, one of the most common supplements in the United States, and zinc carbonate are nearly insoluble and poorly absorbed in the body	What is the most common supplement in the US?
For fortification, however, a 2003 review recommended zinc oxide in cereals as cheap, stable, and as easily absorbed as more expensive forms	Zinc oxide is used to fortify what product?
Symptoms of mild zinc deficiency are diverse	Symptoms ranging from diarrhea to eye lesions are from what?
Major plant sources of zinc include cooked dried beans, sea vegetables, fortified cereals, soyfoods, nuts, peas, and seeds	What is one way that vegetarians and vegans obtain zinc?
Nearly two billion people in the developing world are deficient in zinc	What are two billion people in the world deficient in?
Zinc deficiency is crop plants' most common micronutrient deficiency; it is particularly common in high-pH soils	In what type of soil is zinc deficiency most common?
There is evidence of induced copper deficiency in those taking 100–300 mg of zinc daily	What kind of deficiency is common from taking 100-300mg of zinc daily?
Food and Drug Administration has stated that zinc damages nerve receptors in the nose, which can cause anosmia	What can zinc cause damage to in the nose?
In 1982, the US Mint began minting pennies coated in copper but made primarily of zinc	What coin, as of 1982, is now primarily made of zinc?
Pennies and other small coins are sometimes ingested by dogs, resulting in the need for medical treatment to remove the foreign body	What are dogs known to ingest?
Many early 19th-century neoclassical architects were influenced by the drawings and projects of Étienne-Louis Boullée and Claude Nicolas Ledoux	Who influenced many 19th century neoclassical architects?
Four influential books were published in the first quarter of the 18th century which highlighted the simplicity and purity of classical architecture: Vitruvius Britannicus , Palladio's Four Books of Architecture , De Re Aedificatoria and The Designs of Inigo Jones	What century were most four influential books published?
"At the forefront of the new school of design was the aristocratic ""architect earl"", Richard Boyle, 3rd Earl of Burlington; in 1729, he and William Kent, designed Chiswick House"	"Who was the ""architect earl""?"
By the mid 18th century, the movement broadened to incorporate a greater range of Classical influences, including those from Ancient Greece	What additional influences were incorporated into neoclassical architecture by mid 18th century?
A second neoclassic wave, more severe, more studied and more consciously archaeological, is associated with the height of the Napoleonic Empire	When was the second wave of neoclassical architecture?
"The antiquities of Herculaneum showed that even the most classicising interiors of the Baroque, or the most ""Roman"" rooms of William Kent were based on basilica and temple exterior architecture turned outside in, hence their often bombastic appearance to modern eyes: pedimented window frames turned into gilded mirrors, fireplaces topped with temple fronts"	What are some examples of the changes of interior of neoclassicism from ancient rediscoveries?
The new interiors sought to recreate an authentically Roman and genuinely interior vocabulary	What were interiors seeking to recreate?
A new phase in neoclassical design was inaugurated by Robert and James Adam, who travelled in Italy and Dalmatia in the 1750s, observing the ruins of the classical world	Who began the new phase of neoclassical design?
From about 1800 a fresh influx of Greek architectural examples, seen through the medium of etchings and engravings, gave a new impetus to neoclassicism, the Greek Revival	From around 1800 an influx of etchings and engravings came from where?
It was to be William Wilkins's winning design for the public competition for Downing College, Cambridge that announced the Greek style was to be the dominant idiom in architecture	Whose winning design for public competition began the dominance of Greek style architecture?
At the same time the Empire style in France was a more grandiose wave of neoclassicism in architecture and the decorative arts	How would the Empire style of France be characterized by comparison?
Though neoclassical architecture employed the same classical vocabulary as Late Baroque architecture, it tended to emphasize its planar qualities, rather than sculptural volumes	What other architecture style did neoclassical share similarities and vocabulary?
Neoclassicism also influenced city planning; the ancient Romans had used a consolidated scheme for city planning for both defence and civil convenience, however, the roots of this scheme go back to even older civilizations	What ancient civilization utilized neoclassicism in city planning?
From the middle of the 18th century, exploration and publication changed the course of British architecture towards a purer vision of the Ancient Greco-Roman ideal	What direction did British architecture go in mid 18th century?
In the early 20th century, the writings of Albert Richardson were responsible for a re-awakening of interest in pure neoclassical design	What author's 20th century writing caused interest in pure neoclassical design?
"The first phase of neoclassicism in France is expressed in the ""Louis XVI style"" of architects like Ange-Jacques Gabriel ; the second phase, in the styles called Directoire and ""Empire"", might be characterized by Jean Chalgrin's severe astylar Arc de Triomphe "	What is the name of the first wave of neoclassicism in France?
What little there was, started with Charles de Wailly's crypt in the church of St Leu-St Gilles , and Claude Nicolas Ledoux's Barriere des Bonshommes 	What is the earliest example of Greek architecture in France?
The earliest examples of neoclassical architecture in Hungary may be found in Vác	In what town is the oldest neoclassical architecture in Hungary?
Neoclassical architecture was introduced in Malta in the late 18th century, during the final years of Hospitaller rule	When was Malta introduced to neoclassical architecture?
As of the first decade of the 21st century, contemporary neoclassical architecture is usually classed under the umbrella term of New Classical Architecture	In what are of architecture is neoclassical currently classed?
After a lull during the period of modern architectural dominance , neoclassicism has seen somewhat of a resurgence	When was the lull in neoclassical architecture?
Recently, Prince Charles came under controversy for promoting a classically designed development on the land of the former Chelsea Barracks in London	Who has stirred controversy for development and design of Chelsea Barracks?
"During that period, the language was referred to under a variety of names, such as ""Slavic"", ""Illyrian"", or according to region, ""Bosnian"", ""Serbian"" and ""Croatian"", the latter often in combination with ""Slavonian"" or ""Dalmatian"""	What were some of the names given to language during period of foreign control?
From the very beginning, there were slightly different literary Serbian and Croatian standards, although both were based on the same Shtokavian subdialect, Eastern Herzegovinian	What were both Serbian and Croation standards based on?
Like other South Slavic languages, Serbo-Croatian has a simple phonology, with the common five-vowel system and twenty-five consonants	How many vowels does the Serbo-Croatian language have?
Chakavian, Kajkavian, Shtokavian) of the various regions and ethnicities developed and diverged independently	Did South Slav languages develop coherently or independently?
In the mid-19th century, Serbian and most Croatian writers and linguists , proposed the use of the most widespread dialect, Shtokavian, as the base for their common standard language	Which dialect did writers and linguists of both Serbian and Croatian backgrounds wish to use as their common standard language?
Both Serbian and Croatian variants were represented in respectively different grammar books, dictionaries, school textbooks and in books known as pravopis 	What is the term used for books that lay out spelling rules?
Like most Slavic languages, there are mostly three genders for nouns: masculine, feminine, and neuter, a distinction which is still present even in the plural 	What three noun genders does Serbo-Croatian have?
"Historically, the rising tone appeared when the place of the accent shifted to the preceding syllable , but the quality of this new accent was different – its melody still ""gravitated"" towards the original syllable"	What is the term used when shifing the acent to the next preceding syllable?
All in all, this makes Serbo-Croatian the only Slavic language to officially use both the Latin and Cyrillic scripts, albeit the Latin version is more commonly used	Serbo-Croatian is the only Slavic language to use what two scripts together?
However, migrations from the 16th to 18th centuries resulting from the spread of Ottoman Empire on the Balkans have caused large-scale population displacement that broke the dialect continuum into many geographical pockets	What caused the dialect continuum to become fractured?
In the past, Chakavian and Kajkavian dialects were spoken on a much larger territory, but have been replaced by Štokavian during the period of migrations caused by Ottoman Turkish conquest of the Balkans in the 15th and the 16th centuries	Which dialect covers more area than all other dialects combined?
This has made possible to include all four varieties into a new grammar book	How many standard variants of the Serbo-Croatian are spoken?
The opinion of the majority of Croatian linguists is that there has never been a Serbo-Croatian language, but two different standard languages that overlapped sometime in the course of history	Is it the majority or minority opinion that two different standard languages existed and overlapped at some historical point?
The topic of language for writers from Dalmatia and Dubrovnik prior to the 19th century made a distinction only between speakers of Italian or Slavic, since those were the two main groups that inhabited Dalmatian city-states at that time	Which language groups lived in Dalmation city-states prior to the 19th century?
"Their loyalty was first and foremost to Catholic Christendom, but when they professed an ethnic identity, they referred to themselves as ""Slovin"" and ""Illyrian"" and Croat – these 30-odd writers over the span of c"	To which group did the people of the Catholic faith refer to themselves primarily?
"The most notable are the ""Missal of Duke Novak"" from the Lika region in northwestern Croatia , ""Evangel from Reims"" , Hrvoje's Missal from Bosnia and Split in Dalmatia , and the first printed book in Serbo-Croatian, the Glagolitic Missale Romanum Glagolitice "	What was the first book published in Serbo-Croatian?
T	In what year was the first book printed in Serbo-Croatian?
"In 1954, major Serbian and Croatian writers, linguists and literary critics, backed by Matica srpska and Matica hrvatska signed the Novi Sad Agreement, which in its first conclusion stated: ""Serbs, Croats and Montenegrins share a single language with two equal variants that have developed around Zagreb and Belgrade """	Which agreement was signed in 1954 by writers, linguists, and literary critics?
In addition, like most Slavic languages, the Shtokavian verb also has one of two aspects: perfective or imperfective	Which tense indicates that an action hasn't finished?
For verbs that had -ěti in their infinitive, the past participle ending -ěl evolved into -io in Ijekavian Neoštokavian	To what did the ending -ei evolve into in Ijekavian Neostokavian?
On the other hand, the opinion of Jagić from 1864 is argued not to have firm grounds	All Slavic vernaculars were called what among Romans?
"The nationalists among the Croats conflictingly claim either that they speak an entirely separate language from Serbs and Bosnians or that these two peoples have, due to the longer lexicographic tradition among Croats, somehow ""borrowed"" their standard languages from them"	What opinions do Croatian Nationalists have on the language issue?
In Serbia, the Serbian language is the official one, while both Serbian and Croatian are official in the province of Vojvodina	In which province are Serbian and Croatian both languages offial?
, the network switched to a 24-hour schedule, becoming one of the last major English-language broadcasters to transition to such a schedule	Was CBC one of the first or last stations to adopt a 24 hour schedule?
Until 1998, the network carried a variety of American programs in addition to its core Canadian programming, directly competing with private Canadian broadcasters such as CTV and Global	In what year did the network end American programming?
Under the CBC's current arrangement with Rogers Communications for National Hockey League broadcast rights, Hockey Night in Canada broadcasts on CBC-owned stations and affiliates are not technically aired over the CBC Television network, but over a separate CRTC-licensed part-time network operated by Rogers	Which company owns the rights to National Hockey League broadcasts?
; this later broadcast included only the main news portion of the program, and excluded the analysis and documentary segment	What did the 11pm broadcast of The National omit?
, while most stations also air a single local newscast on weekend evenings 	When do most other stations view their local newscasts?
It has been televised by the network since 1952	What year did HNIC begin being broadcasted on CBC?
It was also the exclusive carrier of Canadian Curling Association events during the 2004–2005 season	CBC was eclusive carrier of what other sport during the 2004-2005 season?
Another note of criticism was made when the network decided to move The National in some time zones to simulcast the American version of The One over the summer	Which American newscast was taken off the air only two weeks after CBC began showing it?
Beginning in 2005, the CBC has contributed production funds for the BBC Wales revival of Doctor Who, for which it received a special credit at the end of each episode	What year did the CBC begin contributing funds to the show Doctor Who?
Since that time, the network has also launched HD simulcasts in Vancouver , Ottawa , Edmonton , Calgary , Halifax , Windsor, , Winnipeg and St	One of the advantages the CBC has over competitors is the ability to broadcast in this British Columbia city?
For on-air identification, most CBC stations use the CBC brand rather than their call letters, not identifying themselves specifically until sign-on or sign-off 	What station does not identify itself by its call letters?
Some stations that broadcast from smaller cities are private affiliates of the CBC, that is, stations which are owned by commercial broadcasters but predominantly incorporate CBC programming within their schedules	What are private affiliates?
One private CBC affiliate, CHBC-TV in Kelowna, joined E	Which CBC affiliate joined E! in February 2006?
According to filings to the Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission by Thunder Bay Electronics and Bell Media , the CBC informed them that it will not extend its association with any of its private affiliates beyond August 31, 2011	What was Canada's date for the switch between analog and digital transmission?
As of September 2010 CBC shut down its analogue transmitter and decided not to replace it with a digital transmitter	When did CBC shut down its analogue transmitter?
CBC's sports coverage has also attained high viewership in border markets, including its coverage of the NHL's Stanley Cup Playoffs, which was generally considered to be more complete and consistent than coverage by other networks such as NBC	Why is CBC's coverage preferable to other networks in the US?
While its fellow Canadian broadcasters converted most of their transmitters to digital by the Canadian digital television transition deadline of August 31, 2011, CBC converted only about half of the analogue transmitters in mandatory areas to digital 	What was the deadline for converstion to digital transmission from analogue?
In mid-August 2011, the CRTC granted the CBC an extension, until August 31, 2012, to continue operating its analogue transmitters in markets subject to the August 31, 2011 transition deadline	When was CBC's anologue upgrade extension set to expire?
According to CBC's application for this transmitter to the CRTC, the population served by the digital transmitter would be 113,930 people versus 303,465 served by the existing analogue transmitter	How many people were intended to be served by digital transmitters, according to CBC's application?
CBC announced on April 4, 2012, that it will shut down all of its approximately 620 analogue television transmitters on July 31, 2012 with no plans to install digital transmitters in their place, thus reducing the total number of the corporation's television transmitters across the country down to 27	How many transmitters does currently CBC operate after 2012?
Further, the CBC stated in the release, that only 15 of the transmitters would be in place by August 31, 2011 due to lack of available funds, and that the remainder would not be on the air until as late as August 31, 2012	How many transmitters did CBC intend to upgrade before August 2011?
""" On December 16, 2010, some months after the CRTC issued a bulletin reminding broadcasters that analog transmitters had to be shut off by the deadline in mandatory markets, the CBC revised the documents accompanying its August 6, 2010 news release to state that it had the money for and is striving to transition all 27 transmitters by August 31, 2011"	On which day did CBC release an updated announcement stating they were striving to update all 27 transmitters?
On March 23, 2011, the CRTC rejected an application by the CBC to install a digital transmitter serving Fredricton, New Brunswick in place of the analogue transmitter serving Fredericton and Saint John, New Brunswick, which would have served only 62	Was CBC's application for a digital transitter in Fredricton approved or rejected?
On August 18, 2011, the CRTC issued a decision that allows CBC's mandatory market rebroadcasting transmitters in analogue to remain on-air until August 31, 2012	On what day did the CRTC agree to allow CBCs broadcasting transmitters to remain active for another year?
"On July 17, 2012, the CRTC approved the shut down of CBC's analogue transmitters, noting that ""while the Commission has the discretion to refuse to revoke broadcasting licences, even on application from a licensee, it cannot direct the CBC or any other broadcaster to continue to operate its stations and transmitters"	On what date did the CTRC approve the shut down of CBC's analogue transmitters?
The Appalachian Mountains French: les Appalaches), often called the Appalachians, are a system of mountains in eastern North America	What are the Appalachian mountains called in French?
The United States Geological Survey defines the Appalachian Highlands physiographic division as consisting of thirteen provinces: the Atlantic Coast Uplands, Eastern Newfoundland Atlantic, Maritime Acadian Highlands, Maritime Plain, Notre Dame and Mégantic Mountains, Western Newfoundland Mountains, Piedmont, Blue Ridge, Valley and Ridge, Saint Lawrence Valley, Appalachian Plateaus, New England province, and the Adirondack provinces	How many provinces are in the mountain range?
The range is mostly located in the United States but extends into southeastern Canada, forming a zone from 100 to 300 mi wide, running from the island of Newfoundland 1,500 mi southwestward to Central Alabama in the United States	What country do the Appalachian mountains extend into?
The term Appalachian refers to several different regions associated with the mountain range	What does the term Appalachian refer to?
While exploring inland along the northern coast of Florida in 1528, the members of the Narváez expedition, including Álvar Núñez Cabeza de Vaca, found a Native American village near present-day Tallahassee, Florida whose name they transcribed as Apalchen or Apalachen [a	What area did the Narvaez expedition explore?
In addition to the true folded mountains, known as the ridge and valley province, the area of dissected plateau to the north and west of the mountains is usually grouped with the Appalachians	What area is usually grouped with the Appalachians? 
A remarkable feature of the belt is the longitudinal chain of broad valleys, including The Great Appalachian Valley, which in the southerly sections divides the mountain system into two unequal portions, but in the northernmost lies west of all the ranges possessing typical Appalachian features, and separates them from the Adirondack group	What does the Great Appalachian Valley do?
Mountains of the Long Range in Newfoundland reach heights of nearly 3,000 ft 	How tall are the mountains in Newfoundland?
In Pennsylvania, there are over sixty summits that rise over 2,500 ft ; the summits of Mount Davis and Blue Knob rise over 3,000 ft 	How many summits in PA are over 2,500 ft? 
The Blue Ridge Mountains, rising in southern Pennsylvania and there known as South Mountain, attain elevations of about 2,000 ft in that state	Where do the Blue Ridge Mountains begin?
Before the French and Indian War, the Appalachian Mountains laid on the indeterminate boundary between Britain's colonies along the Atlantic and French areas centered in the Mississippi basin	Where did the mountains lay before the French and Indian War?
"In eastern Pennsylvania the Great Appalachian Valley, or Great Valley, was accessible by reason of a broad gateway between the end of South Mountain and the Highlands, and many Germans and Moravians settled here between the Susquehanna and Delaware Rivers forming the Pennsylvania Dutch community, some of whom even now speak a unique American dialect of German known as the ""Pennsylvania German language"" or ""Pennsylvania Dutch"	Where did a lot of Germans settle? 
"Characteristic birds of the forest are wild turkey , ruffed grouse , mourning dove , common raven , wood duck , great horned owl , barred owl , screech owl , red-tailed hawk , red-shouldered hawk , and northern goshawk , as well as a great variety of ""songbirds"" , like the warblers in particular"	What is one typical bird found in the range?
Animals that characterize the Appalachian forests include five species of tree squirrels	How many species of tree squirrel are commonly found in the range?
Dryer and rockier uplands and ridges are occupied by oak-chestnut type forests dominated by a variety of oaks (Quercus spp	What trees are typically found in the dryer portions?
The oak forests of the southern and central Appalachians consist largely of black, northern red, white, chestnut and scarlet oaks (Quercus velutina, Q	What kind of oaks are in the central and southern portions?
"Chief summits in the southern section of the Blue Ridge are located along two main crests—the Western or Unaka Front along the Tennessee-North Carolina border and the Eastern Front in North Carolina—or one of several ""cross ridges"" between the two main crests"	What are the names of the two chief summits?
The drainage divide of the Appalachians follows a tortuous course which crosses the mountainous belt just north of the New River in Virginia	What is the name of the drainage divide?
A look at rocks exposed in today's Appalachian mountains reveals elongated belts of folded and thrust faulted marine sedimentary rocks, volcanic rocks and slivers of ancient ocean floor, which provides strong evidence that these rocks were deformed during plate collision	What types of rocks were unharmed during plate collision?
During the middle Ordovician Period , a change in plate motions set the stage for the first Paleozoic mountain-building event in North America	When did the Appalachian passive margin become quiet?
By the end of the Mesozoic era, the Appalachian Mountains had been eroded to an almost flat plain	During what era did the Appalachian Mountains begin to erode?
The Appalachian Mountains contain major deposits of anthracite coal as well as bituminous coal	What is another name for anthracite coal?
In the central Appalachians it is usually confined above 3,000 ft asl, except for a few cold valleys in which it reaches lower elevations	What is the asl height of the red spruce in the cold valleys?
The Appalachians are also home to two species of fir, the boreal balsam fir , and the southern high elevation endemic, Fraser fir 	How many species of oaks are found in the Appalachians?
It is, unfortunately, subject to the hemlock woolly adelgid , an introduced insect, that is rapidly extirpating it as a forest tree	What insect is extirpating spruces?
Red pine is a boreal species that forms a few high elevation outliers as far south as West Virginia	What type of species is the pitch pine?
Lucy Braun's 1950 classic, Deciduous Forests of Eastern North America 	Where was E. Lucy Braun from?
The foregoing trees, shrubs and herbs are also more widely distributed in less rich mesic forests that generally occupy coves, stream valleys and flood plains throughout the southern and central Appalachians at low and intermediate elevations	What are examples of foregoing trees?
The oak forests generally lack the diverse small tree, shrub and herb layers of mesic forests	What type of layers do oak forests have plenty of?
Among the most conspicuous is that of the introduced gypsy moth , which infests primarily oaks, causing severe defoliation and tree mortality	What is worse than the hemlock woolly adelgid?
The latter in particular has greatly increased in abundance as a result of the extirpation of the eastern wolf and the North American cougar	Why has the rabbit increased in numbers as of late?
Most frequently seen, however, is the eastern or red-spotted newt , whose terrestrial eft form is often encountered on the open, dry forest floor	What is the name of the most commonly seen salamander?
Although reptiles are less abundant and diverse than amphibians, a number of snakes are conspicuous members of the fauna	What are found more often than amphibians?
For a century, the Appalachians were a barrier to the westward expansion of the British colonies	What prevented the Appalachian expansion?
By 1755, the obstacle to westward expansion had been thus reduced by half; outposts of the English colonists had penetrated the Allegheny and Cumberland plateaus, threatening French monopoly in the transmontane region, and a conflict became inevitable	When did French colonists breach Allegheny?
The company originated in 1911 as the Computing-Tabulating-Recording Company through the consolidation of The Tabulating Machine Company, the International Time Recording Company, the Computing Scale Company and the Bundy Manufacturing Company	In what year did the company that was to become IBM form?
firm in terms of number of employees , the fourth largest in terms of market capitalization, the ninth most profitable, and the nineteenth largest firm in terms of revenue	How many employees did IBM have in 2012?
IBM has 12 research laboratories worldwide, bundled into IBM Research	Under what name do research laboratories operated by IBM work under?
3% in 2013, and net profit margins expanded from 9	IBM's net profit margins were 16.5% in what year?
IBM acquired Kenexa and SPSS and PwC's consulting business , spinning off companies like printer manufacturer Lexmark , and selling off product lines like its personal computer and x86 server businesses to Lenovo 	In what year did IBM acquire Kenexa?
I	In what year did Lexmark acquire Kenexa?
On June 16, 1911, their four companies were consolidated in New York State by Charles Ranlett Flint to form the Computing-Tabulating-Recording Company 	On what date did the companies that became the Computing-Tabulating-Recording Company get consolidated?
, fired from the National Cash Register Company by John Henry Patterson, called on Flint and, in 1914, was offered CTR	In what year did Thomas J. Watson, Sr. join CTR?
Government, during its first effort to maintain the employment records for 26 million people pursuant to the Social Security Act, and the Third Reich, largely through the German subsidiary Dehomag	What what was the name of the subsidiary working in Germany during World War 2?
In 1952, Thomas Watson, Sr	Thomas Watson Sr. stepped down in what year?
In 2002, IBM acquired PwC consulting	One company that IBM acquired in 2002 is?
In 2005, the company sold its personal computer business to Chinese technology company Lenovo, and in the same year it agreed to acquire Micromuse	IBM sold its personal computer business to what company?
On October 28, 2015, IBM announced its acquisition of digital assets from The Weather Company—a holding company of Bain Capital, The Blackstone Group and NBCUniversal which owns The Weather Channel, including its weather data platforms , websites (Weather	IBM acquired digital assets of this company on October 28, 2015.
The company's 14 member Board of Directors is responsible for overall corporate management	IBM has how many members on its Board of Directors?
The move came as the firm reported a 5% drop in sales and 1% decline in net profit over 2012	How large of a drop in sales did IBM report for fiscal year 2013?
Van der Rohe's 330 North Wabash building in Chicago, the original center of the company's research division post-World War II, was recognized with the 1990 Honor Award from the National Building Museum	What building did Van der Rohe create for IBM?
In 1924 the Quarter Century Club, which recognizes employees with 25 years of service, was organized and the first issue of Business Machines, IBM's internal publication, was published	The Quarter Century Club began in this year.
IBM was among the first corporations to provide group life insurance , survivor benefits and paid vacations 	In what year did IBM begin to provide group life insurance?
In 1952, Thomas J	In what year was IBM's first equal opportunity policy letter published?
On September 21, 1953, Thomas Watson, Jr	What date did Thomas Watson, Jr. send out a letter about IBM hiring the best people regardless of race, gender, or origin?
IBM has been a leading proponent of the Open Source Initiative, and began supporting Linux in 1998	IBM began supporting this in 1998.
DeveloperWorks is a website run by IBM for software developers and IT professionals	IBM runs what website for software developers?
The Xbox 360 contains a PowerPC tri-core processor, which was designed and produced by IBM in less than 24 months	What kind of processor was in the Xbox 360?
"IBM announced it will launch its new software, called ""Open Client Offering"" which is to run on Linux, Microsoft Windows and Apple's Mac OS X"	What will Open Client Offering run on?
A year later, IBM unveiled Project Big Green, a re-direction of $1 billion per year across its businesses to increase energy efficiency	What is the name of the IBM project that redirected $1 billion each year to increase energy efficiency?
IBM also holds the SmartCamp program globally	What is the name of the program that IBM uses to search for new start-up companies to solve world problems?
The birthplace of IBM, Endicott, suffered pollution for decades, however	What location is the birthplace of IBM?
In physics, energy is a property of objects which can be transferred to other objects or converted into different forms	What is a property of objects which can be transferred to other objects or converted into different forms?
Common energy forms include the kinetic energy of a moving object, the potential energy stored by an object's position in a force field , the elastic energy stored by stretching solid objects, the chemical energy released when a fuel burns, the radiant energy carried by light, and the thermal energy due to an object's temperature	Common energy forms include what?
The total energy of a system can be calculated by adding up all forms of energy in the system	How can the total energy of a system be calculated?
Examples of energy transformation include generating electric energy from heat energy via a steam turbine, or lifting an object against gravity using electrical energy driving a crane motor	Give one example of energy transformation.
For example, classical mechanics distinguishes between kinetic energy, which is determined by an object's movement through space, and potential energy, which is a function of the position of an object within a field	What is determined by an object's movement through space?
Elastic energy in materials is also dependent upon electrical potential energy , as is chemical energy, which is stored and released from a reservoir of electrical potential energy between electrons, and the molecules or atomic nuclei that attract them	What is dependent upon electrical potential energy?
In the late 17th century, Gottfried Leibniz proposed the idea of the Latin: vis viva, or living force, which defined as the product of the mass of an object and its velocity squared; he believed that total vis viva was conserved	What is a term for living force?
"In 1807, Thomas Young was possibly the first to use the term ""energy"" instead of vis viva, in its modern sense"	"Who was possibly the first to use the term ""energy"" instead of vis viva?"
These developments led to the theory of conservation of energy, formalized largely by William Thomson as the field of thermodynamics	Who largely formalized the developments that led to the theory of conservation of energy?
Another energy-related concept is called the Lagrangian, after Joseph-Louis Lagrange	What is another energy-related concept?
Noether's theorem states that any differentiable symmetry of the action of a physical system has a corresponding conservation law	When was Noether's theorem created?
In the context of chemistry, energy is an attribute of a substance as a consequence of its atomic, molecular or aggregate structure	In the context of chemistry, what is an attribute of a substance as a consequence of it's atomic, molecular or aggregate structure?
In biology, energy is an attribute of all biological systems from the biosphere to the smallest living organism	In biology, what is an attribute of all biological systems from the biosphere to the smallest living organism?
Sunlight is also captured by plants as chemical potential energy in photosynthesis, when carbon dioxide and water are converted into the high-energy compounds carbohydrates, lipids, and proteins	What is also captured by plants as chemical potential energy in photosynthesis?
Any living organism relies on an external source of energy—radiation from the Sun in the case of green plants, chemical energy in some form in the case of animals—to be able to grow and reproduce	What does any living organism rely on to be able to grow and reproduce?
The second law of thermodynamics states that energy tends to become more evenly spread out across the universe: to concentrate energy in one specific place, it is necessary to spread out a greater amount of energy across the remainder of the universe 	What states that energy tends to become more evenly spread out across the universe?
Sunlight may be stored as gravitational potential energy after it strikes the Earth, as water evaporates from oceans and is deposited upon mountains 	When may sunlight be stored as gravitational potential energy?
Earthquakes also release stored elastic potential energy in rocks, a store that has been produced ultimately from the same radioactive heat sources	What releases stored elastic potential energy in rocks?
All stellar phenomena are driven by various kinds of energy transformations	What is driven by various kinds of energy transformations?
In quantum mechanics, energy is defined in terms of the energy operator as a time derivative of the wave function	In quantum mechanics, what is defined in terms of the energy operator as a time derivative of the wave function?
For example, consider electron–positron annihilation, in which the rest mass of individual particles is destroyed, but the inertia equivalent of the system of the two particles remains , and this inertia and invariant mass is carried off by photons which individually are massless, but as a system retain their mass	What is it called when the rest mass of individual particles is destroyed but the inertia equivalent of the system of the two particles remains?
in a heat engine, as described by Carnot's theorem and the second law of thermodynamics	What states that there are strict limits to how efficiently heat can be converted into a work in a cyclic process?
"Familiar examples of such processes include nuclear decay, in which energy is released that was originally ""stored"" in heavy isotopes , by nucleosynthesis, a process ultimately using the gravitational potential energy released from the gravitational collapse of supernovae, to store energy in the creation of these heavy elements before they were incorporated into the solar system and the Earth"	Name an example of a heavy isotope?
Energy gives rise to weight when it is trapped in a system with zero momentum, where it can be weighed	When does energy give rise to weight?
Matter may be converted to energy , but mass cannot ever be destroyed; rather, mass/energy equivalence remains a constant for both the matter and the energy, during any process when they are converted into each other	Matter may be converted to what?
Thermodynamics divides energy transformation into two kinds: reversible processes and irreversible processes	Thermodynamics divides energy information into what two kinds?
As the universe evolves in time, more and more of its energy becomes trapped in irreversible states (i	As the universe evolves in time, more and more of its energy becomes trapped in what?
According to conservation of energy, energy can neither be created nor destroyed by itself	According to what, energy can neither be created nor destroyed by itself?
As shown rigorously by Noether's theorem, the conservation of energy is a mathematical consequence of translational symmetry of time, a property of most phenomena below the cosmic scale that makes them independent of their locations on the time coordinate	What shows that the conservation of energy is a mathematical consequence of translational symmetry of time?
Virtual photons are also responsible for electrostatic interaction between electric charges , for spontaneous radiative decay of exited atomic and nuclear states, for the Casimir force, for van der Waals bond forces and some other observable phenomena	What are simply lowest quantum mechanical energy state of photons?
Energy transfer can be considered for the special case of systems which are closed to transfers of matter	What can be considered for the special case of systems which are closed to transfers of matter?
The first law of thermodynamics asserts that energy is always conserved and that heat flow is a form of energy transfer	What asserts that energy is always conserved and that heat flow is a form of energy transfer.
This principle is vitally important to understanding the behaviour of a quantity closely related to energy, called entropy	What is the principle that is vitally important to understanding the behaviour of a quantity closely related to energy?
During the 13th century, the native Prussians were conquered by the crusading Teutonic Knights	Who defeated the native Prussians during the 13 century?
Because the duchy was outside of the core Holy Roman Empire, the prince-electors of Brandenburg were able to proclaim themselves King of Prussia beginning in 1701	Why were the prince electors able to proclaim themselves King of Prussia?
The Kingdom of Prussia became the leading state of the German Empire after its creation in 1871	What year did the Kingdom of Prussia become the leading state of the German Empire?
Upon the invitation of Duke Konrad I of Masovia, the Teutonic Knights took possession of Prussia in the 13th century and created a monastic state to administer the conquered Old Prussians	Which group took possession of Prussia in the 13th century?
The Teutonic Order lost eastern Prussia when Grand Master Albert of Brandenburg-Ansbach converted to Lutheranism and secularized the Prussian branch of the Teutonic Order in 1525	Who converted to Lutheranism and secularized the Prussian branch of the Teutonic Order?
The Administrator of Prussia, the grandmaster of the Teutonic Order Maximilian III, son of emperor Maximilian II died in 1618	In what year did Maximilian III die?
Although Brandenburg was a part of the Holy Roman Empire, the Prussian lands were not within the Holy Roman Empire and were with the administration by the Teutonic Order grandmasters under jurisdiction of the Emperor	Brandenburg was part of what dominating force?
Approximately one-third of East Prussia's population died in the plague and famine of 1709–1711, including the last speakers of Old Prussian	What wiped out one third of East Prussia's population during the early 1700's?
In the 1772 First Partition of Poland, the Prussian king Frederick the Great annexed neighboring Royal Prussia, i	In what year was Royal Prussia annexed?
After the disastrous defeat of the Prussian Army at the Battle of Jena-Auerstedt in 1806, Napoleon occupied Berlin and had the officials of the Prussian General Directory swear an oath of allegiance to him, while King Frederick William III and his consort Louise fled via Königsberg and the Curonian Spit to Memel	What defeat led to Prussia having to swear its allegiance to Napoleon?
The succeeding Prussian reforms instigated by Heinrich Friedrich Karl vom und zum Stein and Karl August von Hardenberg included the implementation of an Oberlandesgericht appellation court at Königsberg, a municipal corporation, economic freedom as well as emancipation of the serfs and Jews	Who instigated the Prussian reforms?
The population of the province in 1900 was 1,996,626 people, with a religious makeup of 1,698,465 Protestants, 269,196 Roman Catholics, and 13,877 Jews	Was the population of the Prussian province in 1900?
At the beginning of World War I, East Prussia became a theatre of war when the Russian Empire invaded the country	Which country invaded east Prussia in World War I?
With the forced abdication of Emperor William II in 1918, Germany became a republic	In what year did Germany become a republic?
Erich Koch headed the East Prussian Nazi party from 1928	Who was the leader of the East Prussian Nazi Party?
"Through publicly funded emergency relief programs concentrating on agricultural land-improvement projects and road construction, the ""Erich Koch Plan"" for East Prussia allegedly made the province free of unemployment; on August 16, 1933 Koch reported to Hitler that unemployment had been banished entirely from East Prussia, a feat that gained admiration throughout the Reich"	How were East Prussians able to pay for land improvements and road construction?
In 1938 the Nazis altered about one-third of the toponyms of the area, eliminating, Germanizing, or simplifying a number of Old Prussian names, as well as those Polish or Lithuanian names originating from colonists and refugees to Prussia during and after the Protestant Reformation	In what year did the Nazi's alter around one-third of the toponyms of the area?
49 million inhabitants, 85% of them ethnic Germans, the others Poles in the south who, according to Polish estimates numbered in the interwar period around 300,000-350,000, the Latvian speaking Kursenieki, and Lietuvininkai who spoke Lithuanian in the northeast	Of the population in East Prussia, what percentage of those were German?
In 1939 the Regierungsbezirk Zichenau was annexed by Germany and incorporated into East Prussia	In what year was the Regierungsbezirk Zichenau annexed?
Following Nazi Germany's defeat in World War II in 1945, East Prussia was partitioned between Poland and the Soviet Union according to the Potsdam Conference	What two countries were East Prussia partitioned into after World Was II?
An estimated number of 800,000 Germans were living in East Prussia during the summer of 1945	How many Germans were living in East Prussia in 1945?
Representatives of the Polish government officially took over the civilian administration of the southern part of East Prussia on 23 May 1945	In what year did the Polish government officially take over the administration in East Prussia?
"In April 1946, northern East Prussia became an official province of the Russian SFSR as the ""Kyonigsbergskaya Oblast"", with the Memel Territory becoming part of the Lithuanian SSR"	What year did East Prussia become an official province of Russia?
While many fled from the Red Army during the evacuation of East Prussia, Curonians that remained behind were subsequently expelled by the Soviet Union	What happened to the Curonians who lived in the area in East Prussia?
After the expulsion of the German population ethnic Russians, Belarusians, and Ukrainians were settled in the northern part	Once the German populations was removed, what three groups settled into the nothern area?
German names have been revived in commercial Russian trade and there is sometimes talk of reverting Kaliningrad's name to its historic name of Königsberg	What has since been considered in Kalinigrad?
Since 1875, with the strengthening of self-rule, the urban and rural districts within each province formed a corporation with common tasks and assets (schools, traffic installations, hospitals, cultural institutions, jails etc	What were common task of the corporation formed by the urban and rural districts?
The Ottoman Empire , also known as the Turkish Empire, Ottoman Turkey or Turkey, was an empire founded in 1299 by Oghuz Turks under Osman I in northwestern Anatolia	The Ottoman Empire is also known as what three other names?
During the 16th and 17th centuries, in particular at the height of its power under the reign of Suleiman the Magnificent, the Ottoman Empire was a multinational, multilingual empire controlling much of Southeast Europe, Western Asia, the Caucasus, North Africa, and the Horn of Africa	Under the reign of who did the Ottoman empire control much of Southeastern Europe?
With Constantinople as its capital and control of lands around the Mediterranean basin, the Ottoman Empire was at the centre of interactions between the Eastern and Western worlds for six centuries	What was the capital of the Ottoman empire?
The word Ottoman is a historical anglicisation of the name of Osman I, the founder of the Empire and of the ruling House of Osman 	An anglicization of the name Osman I results in what word?
Ertuğrul, the father of Osman I , arrived in Anatolia from Merv with 400 horsemen to aid the Seljuks of Rum against the Byzantines	Who was the father of Osman I?
Osman's son, Orhan, captured the northwestern Anatolian city of Bursa in 1324, and made it the new capital of the Ottoman state	Which city did Osman's son capture?
With the extension of Turkish dominion into the Balkans, the strategic conquest of Constantinople became a crucial objective	What was an objective of Turkey after its expansion into the Balkans?
Part of the Ottoman territories in the Balkans were temporarily lost after 1402 but were later recovered by Murad II between the 1430s and 1450s	Who recovered Ottoman empire territories in the Balkans in the 1430s to the 1450s?
The son of Murad II, Mehmed the Conqueror, reorganized the state and the military, and conquered Constantinople on 29 May 1453	Who was the son of Murad II?
Suleiman the Magnificent captured Belgrade in 1521, conquered the southern and central parts of the Kingdom of Hungary as part of the Ottoman–Hungarian Wars, and, after his historical victory in the Battle of Mohács in 1526, he established Turkish rule in the territory of present-day Hungary and other Central European territories	During what years was Suleiman the Magnificent alive?
France and the Ottoman Empire, united by mutual opposition to Habsburg rule, became strong allies	France and the Ottoman Empire united against what?
The stagnation and decline, Stephen Lee argues, was relentless after the death of Suleiman in 1566, interrupted by a few short revivals or reform and recovery	Who argues that there was steep decline and stagnation after the death of Suleiman?
The effective military and bureaucratic structures of the previous century came under strain during a protracted period of misrule by weak Sultans	Poor rule by what class of people strained the empire?
The discovery of new maritime trade routes by Western European states allowed them to avoid the Ottoman trade monopoly	Avoiding the strength of Ottoman trade was accomplished with the discovery of what?
In southern Europe, a Catholic coalition led by Philip II of Spain won a victory over the Ottoman fleet at the Battle of Lepanto 	Which Spaniard led a battle in 1571?
The Long War against Habsburg Austria created the need for greater numbers of Ottoman infantry equipped with firearms, resulting in a relaxation of recruitment policy	What was the late 16th century war against Habsburg Austria known as?
During his brief majority reign, Murad IV reasserted central authority and recaptured Iraq from the Safavids	Who recaptured Iraq in 1639?
This period of renewed assertiveness came to a calamitous end in May 1683 when Grand Vizier Kara Mustafa Pasha led a huge army to attempt a second Ottoman siege of Vienna in the Great Turkish War of 1683–1687	Which Grand Vizier attempted a siege of Vienna in 1683?
"After the Austro-Turkish War of 1716–1718 the Treaty of Passarowitz confirmed the loss of the Banat, Serbia and ""Little Walachia"" to Austria"	Oltenia is also known as what?
Educational and technological reforms came about, including the establishment of higher education institutions such as the Istanbul Technical University	What is one university that was formed in the early 18th century of the empire?
In 1768 Russian-backed Ukrainian Haidamaks, pursuing Polish confederates, entered Balta, an Ottoman-controlled town on the border of Bessarabia in Ukraine, and massacred its citizens and burned the town to the ground	Which group supported by Russia entered Balta in 1768?
The Serbian revolution marked the beginning of an era of national awakening in the Balkans during the Eastern Question	During what years did the Serbian Revolution occur?
In 1861, there were 571 primary and 94 secondary schools for Ottoman Christians with 140,000 pupils in total, a figure that vastly exceeded the number of Muslim children in school at the same time, who were further hindered by the amount of time spent learning Arabic and Islamic theology	How many primary schools existed for Christians in the Ottoman empire in 1861?
The Crimean War was part of a long-running contest between the major European powers for influence over territories of the declining Ottoman Empire	During what years did the Crimean War take place?
"Indeed, as the historian Eugene Rogan has written, ""the single greatest threat to the independence of the Middle East"" in the nineteenth century ""was not the armies of Europe but its banks"	What historian wrote that banks were the single greatest threat to mid-east independence? 
The Ottoman bashi-bazouks brutally suppressed the Bulgarian uprising of 1876, massacring up to 100,000 people in the process	Who held back the Bulgarian uprising in 1876?
As the Ottoman Empire gradually shrank in size, some 7–9 million Turkish-Muslims from its former territories in the Caucasus, Crimea, Balkans, and the Mediterranean islands migrated to Anatolia and Eastern Thrace	Millions of Muslims left the empire and migrated to what places?
The defeat and dissolution of the Ottoman Empire began with the Second Constitutional Era, a moment of hope and promise established with the Young Turk Revolution	What era kicked off the end of the Ottoman empire?
The history of the Ottoman Empire during World War I began with the Ottoman engagement in the Middle Eastern theatre	Where did the Ottoman empire begin its part in the first world war?
In 1915, as the Russian Caucasus Army continued to advance into eastern Anatolia, the Ottoman government started the deportation of its ethnic Armenian population, resulting in the death of approximately 1	When did the Russian Caucasus Army advance into eastern Anatolia?
The Sultan was the highest position in the system	What was the highest ranked person in the Ottoman Empire until the 19th century?
The Ottoman Empire or, as a dynastic institution, the House of Osman was unprecedented and unequaled in the Islamic world for its size and duration	What was another name for the Ottoman Empire?
The highest position in Islam, caliphate, was claimed by the sultans starting since Murad I, which was established as Ottoman Caliphate	The Ottoman Caliphate claimed by Murad Ir epresented what in Islam?
Though the sultan was the supreme monarch, the sultan's political and executive authority was delegated	The sultan of the ottoman empire had what honorific?
At the same time the Qanun , a secular legal system, co-existed with religious law or Sharia	What was the name of the secular legal system under the Ottoman Caliphate?
These court categories were not, however, wholly exclusive: for instance, the Islamic courts—which were the Empire's primary courts—could also be used to settle a trade conflict or disputes between litigants of differing religions, and Jews and Christians often went to them to obtain a more forceful ruling on an issue	What were the primary courts of the empire?
Presiding over Islamic courts would be a Qadi, or judge	Who was the one that presided over the empire's Islamic Courts?
These reforms were based heavily on French models, as indicated by the adoption of a three-tiered court system	Reforms in the Ottoman court system were based on what model?
The first military unit of the Ottoman State was an army that was organized by Osman I from the tribesmen inhabiting the hills of western Anatolia in the late 13th century	In what century did the first Osman I organized military unit form?
The Ottoman Navy vastly contributed to the expansion of the Empire's territories on the European continent	On what continent did the Ottoman Navy contribute most?
Sultan Abdülhamid II distrusted the admirals who sided with the reformist Midhat Pasha, and claimed that the large and expensive fleet was of no use against the Russians during the Russo-Turkish War	Which sultan distrusted his admirals during the Russo-Turkish war?
The establishment of Ottoman military aviation dates back to between June 1909 and July 1911	What was the first date that the Ottoman empire had an air-based military unit?
Ottoman government deliberately pursued a policy for the development of Bursa, Edirne, and Istanbul, successive Ottoman capitals, into major commercial and industrial centres, considering that merchants and artisans were indispensable in creating a new metropolis	The goal of developing Bursa and Istanbul was an intentional act to create what?
The Ottoman economic mind was closely related to the basic concepts of state and society in the Middle East in which the ultimate goal of a state was consolidation and extension of the ruler's power, and the way to reach it was to get rich resources of revenues by making the productive classes prosperous	The economic goal of the state was to serve as what for the ruler?
The organization of the treasury and chancery were developed under the Ottoman Empire more than any other Islamic government and, until the 17th century, they were the leading organization among all their contemporaries	Two of the most developed economic organizations under the Ottoman Empire were what?
The economic structure of the Empire was defined by its geopolitical structure	What serviced as the foundation for the structure of the economy of the Ottoman empire?
Modern Ottoman studies think that the change in relations between the Ottoman Turks and central Europe was caused by the opening of the new sea routes	What is believed to have caused the opening of new sea routes during the Ottoman Empire?
By developing commercial centres and routes, encouraging people to extend the area of cultivated land in the country and international trade through its dominions, the state performed basic economic functions in the Empire	The development of what caused people to expand areas of cultivation in the Ottoman Empire?
The rise of port cities saw the clustering of populations caused by the development of steamships and railroads	The rise of ports caused what in populations?
For example, the Russian and Austria-Habsburg annexation of the Crimean and Balkan regions respectively saw large influxes of Muslim refugees – 200,000 Crimean Tartars fleeing to Dobruja	The annexation of what two regions resulted in large groups of Muslim refugees coming into the empire?
Ottoman Turkish was the official language of the Empire	What was the official language of the Ottoman Empire?
"Because of a low literacy rate among the public , ordinary people had to hire scribes as ""special request-writers"" to be able to communicate with the government"	What was the public's literacy rate in leading up to the early 19th century in the empire?
Until the second half of the 15th century the empire had a Christian majority, under the rule of a Muslim minority	The Empire had a Christian majority until what time?
Muslim sects regarded as heretical, such as the Druze, Ismailis, Alevis, and Alawites, ranked below Jews and Christians	The Muslim sect known as the Druze is considered what?
Under the millet system, non-Muslim people were considered subjects of the Empire, but were not subject to the Muslim faith or Muslim law	What system deemed non-Muslims subjects of the empire but unbound by Muslim law?
Despite newer added amalgamations, the Ottoman dynasty, like their predecessors in the Sultanate of Rum and the Seljuk Empire, were thoroughly Persianised in their culture, language, habits and customs, and therefore, the empire has been described as a Persianate empire	The Ottoman dynasty was preceded by what sultanate?
Ottoman Divan poetry was a highly ritualized and symbolic art form	What type of Ottoman poetry is ritualized?
Until the 19th century, Ottoman prose did not develop to the extent that contemporary Divan poetry did	Prose in the Ottoman empire did not develop to a higher level until which century?
Due to historically close ties with France, French literature came to constitute the major Western influence on Ottoman literature throughout the latter half of the 19th century	What was the biggest influence from the west on Ottoman literature?
"Many of the writers in the Tanzimat period wrote in several different genres simultaneously: for instance, the poet Namik Kemal also wrote the important 1876 novel İntibâh , while the journalist İbrahim Şinasi is noted for writing, in 1860, the first modern Turkish play, the one-act comedy ""Şair Evlenmesi"" "	What 1876 Novel did Namik Kemal write?
The greatest of the court artists enriched the Ottoman Empire with many pluralistic artistic influences: such as mixing traditional Byzantine art with elements of Chinese art	Ottoman artists mixed Chinese art with the art of what else?
Ottoman illumination covers non-figurative painted or drawn decorative art in books or on sheets in muraqqa or albums, as opposed to the figurative images of the Ottoman miniature	Were would one find the sheets where Ottoman's created illuminated decorations?
The art of carpet weaving was particularly significant in the Ottoman Empire, carpets having an immense importance both as decorative furnishings, rich in religious and other symbolism, and as a practical consideration, as it was customary to remove one's shoes in living quarters	Which art was important in religious symbolism and as a decoration in the Ottoman empire?
Ottoman classical music was an important part of the education of the Ottoman elite, a number of the Ottoman sultans were accomplished musicians and composers themselves, such as Selim III, whose compositions are often still performed today	The elites of the Ottoman empire found what type of music important?
The instruments used are a mixture of Anatolian and Central Asian instruments , other Middle Eastern instruments , and—later in the tradition—Western instruments 	What are the three most used Anatolian and central asian instruments in Ottoman Classical music?
Ottoman cuisine refers to the cuisine of the capital, Istanbul, and the regional capital cities, where the melting pot of cultures created a common cuisine that most of the population regardless of ethnicity shared	The cuisine known as Ottoman cuisine is in reference to the food eaten where?
Much of the cuisine of former Ottoman territories today is descended from a shared Ottoman cuisine, especially Turkish cuisine, and including Greek cuisine, Balkan cuisine, Armenian cuisine, and Middle Eastern cuisine	Turkish cuisine originates from what source?
A great part of this desire for local and foreign manuscripts arose in the 15th Century	In what century did the Ottoman's start to desire foreign manuscripts?
European model sports clubs were formed with the spreading popularity of football matches in 19th century Constantinople	When did European sport clubs begin to form in the Ottoman empire?
Philosophy of space and time is the branch of philosophy concerned with the issues surrounding the ontology, epistemology, and character of space and time	Which philosophy branch is concerned with issues surrounding ontology?
The earliest recorded Western philosophy of time was expounded by the ancient Egyptian thinker Ptahhotep (c	Who expounded the earliest recorded Western philosophy of time?
""" He goes on to comment on the difficulty of thinking about time, pointing out the inaccuracy of common speech: ""For but few things are there of which we speak properly; of most things we speak improperly, still the things intended are understood"	What did St. Augustine comment on in Book 11, regarding thinking about time?
In the early 11th century, the Muslim physicist Ibn al-Haytham discussed space perception and its epistemological implications in his Book of Optics , he also rejected Aristotle's definition of topos by way of geometric demonstrations and defined place as a mathematical spatial extension	Which 11th century Muslim physicist discussed space perception and its epistemological implications? 
In 1781, Immanuel Kant published the Critique of Pure Reason, one of the most influential works in the history of the philosophy of space and time	When did Kant publish one of the most influential works in the history of the philosophy of space and time.
Arguing against the absolutist position, Leibniz offers a number of thought experiments with the purpose of showing that there is contradiction in assuming the existence of facts such as absolute location and velocity	What did Leibniz argue against?
The example Leibniz uses involves two proposed universes situated in absolute space	Leibniz's example involves how many universes?
Standing out in Clarke's response to Leibniz's arguments is the bucket argument: Water in a bucket, hung from a rope and set to spin, will start with a flat surface	What stood out in Clark's response to Leibniz?
Leibniz describes a space that exists only as a relation between objects, and which has no existence apart from the existence of those objects	Leibniz describes space as existing only as a relation between what?
Mach suggested that thought experiments like the bucket argument are problematic	How did Mach describe thought experiments like the bucket argument?
Mach argued that, in effect, the water experiment in an otherwise empty universe would remain flat	What did Mach argue about the water experiment in an otherwise empty universe?
Albert Einstein proposed that the laws of physics should be based on the principle of relativity	lbert Einstein proposed that the laws of physics should be based on what principle?
In classical physics, an inertial reference frame is one in which an object that experiences no forces does not accelerate	In classical physics, an inertial reference frame is one in which an object without force does what?
Einstein partially advocates Mach's principle in that distant stars explain inertia because they provide the gravitational field against which acceleration and inertia occur	How does Einstein advocate Mach's principle?
Coordinative definition has two major features	Coordinative definition has how many major features?
The symmetry group of the general theory of relativity includes all differentiable transformations, i	The symmetry group of the general theory of relativity includes what?
The problem of the direction of time arises directly from two contradictory facts	How many contradictory facts does the problem of the direction of time arise from?
But in statistical mechanics things get more complicated	How are things in statistical mechanics? 
A third type of solution to the problem of the direction of time, although much less represented, argues that the laws are not time-reversal symmetric	What does the third type of solution to the problem of the direction of time argue?
One recent proponent of the laws solution is Tim Maudlin who argues that the fundamental laws of physics are laws of temporal evolution 	Who argues that the fundamental laws of physics are laws of temporal evolution?
"In this paper McTaggart proposes two ""temporal series"""	"How many ""temporal series"" did McTaggart propose?"
According to Presentism, time is an ordering of various realities	According to what theory is time an ordering of various realities?
The positions on the persistence of objects are somewhat similar	How similar are the positions on the persistence of objects?
However, asymmetry of causation can be observed in a non-arbitrary way which is not metaphysical in the case of a human hand dropping a cup of water which smashes into fragments on a hard floor, spilling the liquid	How can asymmetry of causation be observed?
"Traditionally considered the last part of the Stone Age, the Neolithic followed the terminal Holocene Epipaleolithic period and commenced with the beginning of farming, which produced the ""Neolithic Revolution"""	What era is commonly known as the final phase of the Stone Age?
The beginning of the Neolithic culture is considered to be in the Levant about 10,200 – 8,800 BC	What time period marks the start of Neolithic culture?
Not all of these cultural elements characteristic of the Neolithic appeared everywhere in the same order: the earliest farming societies in the Near East did not use pottery	What objects were not used by early farm societies in the Near East ?
The Neolithic 1 period began roughly 10,000 years ago in the Levant	When did the The Neolithic 1 period start?
The Neolithic 2 began around 8,800 BCE according to the ASPRO chronology in the Levant 	When did the The Neolithic 2 era start?
Around 10,200 BC the first fully developed Neolithic cultures belonging to the phase Pre-Pottery Neolithic A appeared in the fertile crescent	When did the Pre-Pottery Neolithic A phase start?
2	How many temples were built in Tell Qaramel?
2	How many temples were built in PPNA?
In 1981 a team of researchers from the Maison de l'Orient et de la Méditerranée, including Jacques Cauvin and Oliver Aurenche divided Near East neolithic chronology into ten periods based on social, economic and cultural characteristics	What are the names of two researchers who divided neolithic chronology into ten periods?
Domestication of sheep and goats reached Egypt from the Near East possibly as early as 6,000 BC	When did the domestication of sheep first appear in Egypt?
In southeast Europe agrarian societies first appeared in the 7th millennium BC, attested by one of the earliest farming sites of Europe, discovered in Vashtëmi, southeastern Albania and dating back to 6,500 BC	When did agrarian societies start to arise in Southeast Europe?
In 2012, news was released about a new farming site discovered in Munam-ri, Goseong, Gangwon Province, South Korea, which may be the earliest farmland known to date in east Asia	When was the earliest known Asian farm site found in South Korea?
, crop domestication and sedentary lifestyles) occurred by around 4500 BC, but possibly as early as 11,000–10,000 BC	What major trends appeared in Mesoamerica during 4500 BC?
During most of the Neolithic age of Eurasia, people lived in small tribes composed of multiple bands or lineages	What social groups were formed during the Neolithic age of Eurasia?
The domestication of large animals (c	What caused a major increase in social inequality?
Families and households were still largely independent economically, and the household was probably the center of life	What was the cultural aspect was the major center of life?
There is a large body of evidence for fortified settlements at Linearbandkeramik sites along the Rhine, as at least some villages were fortified for some time with a palisade and an outer ditch	Where was evidence of fortified settlements found?
Control of labour and inter-group conflict is characteristic of corporate-level or 'tribal' groups, headed by a charismatic individual; whether a 'big man' or a proto-chief, functioning as a lineage-group head	What production trait existed in tribal groups that were controlled by charismatic leaders?
The shelter of the early people changed dramatically from the paleolithic to the neolithic era	What lifestyle element changed significantly from the paleolithic to the neolithic era?
A significant and far-reaching shift in human subsistence and lifestyle was to be brought about in areas where crop farming and cultivation were first developed: the previous reliance on an essentially nomadic hunter-gatherer subsistence technique or pastoral transhumance was at first supplemented, and then increasingly replaced by, a reliance upon the foods produced from cultivated lands	What trend led to a major shift in the livelihoods of early cultures?
However, early farmers were also adversely affected in times of famine, such as may be caused by drought or pests	What were the causes of famine in early farm towns?
Another significant change undergone by many of these newly agrarian communities was one of diet	What food related trend was significant in the new agrarian societies?
Neolithic people were skilled farmers, manufacturing a range of tools necessary for the tending, harvesting and processing of crops and food production (e	What type of occupation were Neolithic people considered to be proficient at?
Neolithic peoples in the Levant, Anatolia, Syria, northern Mesopotamia and Central Asia were also accomplished builders, utilizing mud-brick to construct houses and villages	What did Neolithic people use mud-brick to build?
Most clothing appears to have been made of animal skins, as indicated by finds of large numbers of bone and antler pins which are ideal for fastening leather	What did early humans use to make clothing?
Friedrich Hayek CH ; 8 May 1899 – 23 March 1992), born in Austria-Hungary as Friedrich August von Hayek and frequently referred to as F	In which nation was Friedrich Hayek born?
"In 1984, he was appointed a member of the Order of the Companions of Honour by Queen Elizabeth II on the advice of Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher for his ""services to the study of economics"""	Hayek became a member of which group in 1984?
Friedrich August von Hayek was born in Vienna to August von Hayek and Felicitas Hayek 	Who was Hayek's father?
His father's career as a university professor influenced Friedrich's goals later in life	Who's occupation inspired Hayek when he was older?
On his mother's side, Hayek was second cousin to the philosopher Ludwig Wittgenstein	Who was among the first readers of Ludwig Wittgenstein's book?
In his unpublished autobiographical notes, Hayek recalled a division between him and his younger brothers who were only few years younger than him, but he believed that they were somehow of a different generation	What did Hayek conclude regarding his brothers?
At the University of Vienna, Hayek earned doctorates in law and political science in 1921 and 1923 respectively; and he also studied philosophy, psychology, and economics	Where did Hayek acquire his doctorates?
Between 1923 and 1924 Hayek worked as a research assistant to Prof	What work did Hayek begin in 1923?
Initially sympathetic to Wieser's democratic socialism, Hayek's economic thinking shifted away from socialism and toward the classical liberalism of Carl Menger after reading von Mises' book Socialism	What ideology was Hayek originally in support of?
With the help of Mises, in the late 1920s Hayek founded and served as director of the Austrian Institute for Business Cycle Research, before joining the faculty of the London School of Economics in 1931 at the behest of Lionel Robbins	What position did Hayek gain at the Austrian Institute?
Hayek was concerned about the general view in Britain's academia that fascism was a capitalist reaction to socialism and The Road to Serfdom arose from those concerns	What did Hayek write regarding fascism and socialism?
In 1950, Hayek left the London School of Economics for the University of Chicago, where he became a professor in the Committee on Social Thought	Upon leaving London, for what college did he choose to work?
of Chicago in the 1940s, with Hayek's The Road to Serfdom playing a seminal role in transforming how Milton Friedman and others understood how society works	Which of Hayek's works had a profound influence on those at the University of Chicago?
"After editing a book on John Stuart Mill's letters he planned to publish two books on the liberal order, The Constitution of Liberty and ""The Creative Powers of a Free Civilization"" "	What topic were Hayek's next two books going to cover?
From 1962 until his retirement in 1968, he was a professor at the University of Freiburg, West Germany, where he began work on his next book, Law, Legislation and Liberty	What country did Hayek move to in 1962?
In February 1975, Margaret Thatcher was elected leader of the British Conservative Party	What political party was Margaret Thatcher the head of in 1975?
In 1977, Hayek was critical of the Lib-Lab pact, in which the British Liberal Party agreed to keep the British Labour government in office	What was the name of the agreement Hayek criticized in 1977?
"In 1978, Hayek came into conflict with the Liberal Party leader, David Steel, who claimed that liberty was possible only with ""social justice and an equitable distribution of wealth and power, which in turn require a degree of active government intervention"" and that the Conservative Party were more concerned with the connection between liberty and private enterprise than between liberty and democracy"	Which party was criticized for being less concerned about liberty and democracy?
"In 1984, he was appointed as a member of the Order of the Companions of Honour by Queen Elizabeth II of the United Kingdom on the advice of the British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher for his ""services to the study of economics"""	What group was Hayek inducted into by the Queen of England?
"Bush awarded Hayek the Presidential Medal of Freedom, one of the two highest civilian awards in the United States, for a ""lifetime of looking beyond the horizon"""	What was the reason given for Hayek's 1991 award from the President?
"Mises had earlier applied the concept of marginal utility to the value of money in his Theory of Money and Credit , in which he also proposed an explanation for ""industrial fluctuations"" based on the ideas of the old British Currency School and of Swedish economist Knut Wicksell"	What is the name of Mises' 1912 book?
In 1929, Lionel Robbins assumed the helm of the London School of Economics 	Lionel Robbins came to head which school in 1929?
"Keynes"" and published his lectures at the LSE in book form as Prices and Production"	Hayek's critical analysis of Keyne's work was published under what title?
Hayek continued his research on monetary and capital theory, revising his theories of the relations between credit cycles and capital structure in Profits, Interest and Investment and The Pure Theory of Capital , but his reputation as an economic theorist had by then fallen so much that those works were largely ignored, except for scathing critiques by Nicholas Kaldor	What was the result of Hayek's Prices and Production?
"Hayek never produced the book-length treatment of ""the dynamics of capital"" that he had promised in the Pure Theory of Capital"	What topic did Hayek never write a book about as he said he would?
Building on the earlier work of Ludwig von Mises and others, Hayek also argued that while in centrally planned economies an individual or a select group of individuals must determine the distribution of resources, these planners will never have enough information to carry out this allocation reliably	What did Hayek claim those who must distribute resources would lack most?
Dickinson and Oskar Lange, responded by invoking general equilibrium theory, which they argued disproved Mises's thesis	What did some socialists bring up as a rebuttal to Hayek's resource distribution argument?
In The Use of Knowledge in Society , Hayek argued that the price mechanism serves to share and synchronise local and personal knowledge, allowing society's members to achieve diverse, complicated ends through a principle of spontaneous self-organization	Which of Hayek's books argued against the socialist price mechanism?
Hayek was one of the leading academic critics of collectivism in the 20th century	What was the name of the ideology Hayek criticized?
"Hayek also wrote that the state can play a role in the economy, and specifically, in creating a ""safety net"""	Hayek believed the state could aid the economy by doing what?
Hayek's work on the microeconomics of the choice theoretics of investment, non-permanent goods, potential permanent resources, and economically-adapted permanent resources mark a central dividing point between his work in areas of macroeconomics and that of almost all other economists	In what economic field of study does Hayek's views differ from those in macroeconomics?
During World War II, Hayek began the ‘Abuse of Reason’ project	When did Hayek start working on Abuse of Reason?
"In The Sensory Order: An Inquiry into the Foundations of Theoretical Psychology , Hayek independently developed a ""Hebbian learning"" model of learning and memory – an idea which he first conceived in 1920, prior to his study of economics"	In what year was the book published in which Hayek developed Hebbian learning?
In the latter half of his career Hayek made a number of contributions to social and political philosophy, which he based on his views on the limits of human knowledge, and the idea of spontaneous order in social institutions	When did Hayek begin presenting his ideas on the limits of human knowledge?
Hayek disapproved of the notion of 'social justice'	What concept did Hayek dislike?
Hayek’s concept of the market as a spontaneous order has been recently applied to ecosystems to defend a broadly non-interventionist policy	What has Hayek's views on the market been used to defend?
"With regard to a safety net, Hayek advocated ""some provision for those threatened by the extremes of indigence or starvation, be if only in the interest of those who require protection against acts of desperation on the part of the needy"	According to Wapshott, who was promoting the implementation of universal health care?
Diamond argues Hayek's problems arise when he goes beyond claims that can be evaluated within economic science	Diamond believes Hayek's weaknesses come out when he steps beyond the bounds of what topic?
But a dictatorship may be a necessary system for a transitional period	At what point did Hayek claim dictatorships may be necessary?
For Hayek, the supposedly stark difference between authoritarianism and totalitarianism has much importance and Hayek places heavy weight on this distinction in his defence of transitional dictatorship	Hayek believed that authoritarianism was very different from what?
In 1932, Hayek suggested that private investment in the public markets was a better road to wealth and economic co-ordination in Britain than government spending programs, as argued in a letter he co-signed with Lionel Robbins and others in an exchange of letters with John Maynard Keynes in The Times	What did Hayek claim to be better than investing in government spending programs?
Hayek is the second-most frequently cited economist in the Nobel lectures of the prize winners in economics, which is particularly striking since his own lecture was critical of the field of orthodox economics and neo-classical modelisation	Which economist is cited the most by winners of the Nobel prize in that field?
"The ""informal"" economics presented in Milton Friedman's massively influential popular work Free to Choose , is explicitly Hayekian in its account of the price system as a system for transmitting and co-ordinating knowledge"	"Whose 1980 book mentions ""informal"" economics?"
Hayek had a long-standing and close friendship with philosopher of science Karl Popper, also from Vienna	Which fellow Vienna native was Hayek friends with?
For example, Hayek's discussion in The Road to Serfdom about truth, falsehood and the use of language influenced some later opponents of postmodernism	Which of Hayek's books had an impact on those against postmodernism?
After winning the United Kingdom general election, 1979, Margaret Thatcher appointed Keith Joseph, the director of the Hayekian Centre for Policy Studies, as her secretary of state for industry in an effort to redirect parliament's economic strategies	In what year was Margaret Thatcher elected Prime Minister?
"Hayek wrote an essay, ""Why I Am Not a Conservative"" , in which he disparaged conservatism for its inability to adapt to changing human realities or to offer a positive political program, remarking, ""Conservatism is only as good as what it conserves"	What ideology did Hayek not agree with in an essay appended to The Constitution of Liberty?
"However, for his part, Hayek found this term ""singularly unattractive"" and offered the term ""Old Whig"" instead"	What did Hayek suggest as an alternative to being called a libertarian?
"His opponents have attacked Hayek as a leading promoter of ""neoliberalism"""	What term do those who disagree with Hayek use to describe his ideals?
In Why F A Hayek is a Conservative, British policy analyst Madsen Pirie claims Hayek mistakes the nature of the conservative outlook	Who makes the claim that Hayek was actually a conservative?
Diarrhea, also spelled diarrhoea, is the condition of having at least three loose or liquid bowel movements each day	What is diarrhea?
The most common cause is an infection of the intestines due to either a virus, bacteria, or parasite; a condition known as gastroenteritis	What is the most common cause of diarrhea?
Prevention of infectious diarrhea is by improved sanitation, clean drinking water, and hand washing with soap	What are some ways to prevent diarrhea?
It is most common in developing countries, where young children get diarrhea on average three times a year	How often do kids get diarrhea in developing countries?
Secretory diarrhea means that there is an increase in the active secretion, or there is an inhibition of absorption	What is secretory diarrhea?
Osmotic diarrhea occurs when too much water is drawn into the bowels	What occures with osmotic diarrhea?
Inflammatory diarrhea occurs when there is damage to the mucosal lining or brush border, which leads to a passive loss of protein-rich fluids and a decreased ability to absorb these lost fluids	When does inflammatory diarrhea occur?
Diarrheal disease may have a negative impact on both physical fitness and mental development	Diarrheal disease has what effects on a person?
Another possible cause of diarrhea is irritable bowel syndrome , which usually presents with abdominal discomfort relieved by defecation and unusual stool for at least 3 days a week over the previous 3 months	What is IBS?
Poverty is a good indicator of the rate of infectious diarrhea in a population	What is a good indicator of the rate of infectious diarrhea?
Proper nutrition is important for health and functioning, including the prevention of infectious diarrhea	Why is proper nutrition important?
According to two researchers, Nesse and Williams, diarrhea may function as an evolved expulsion defense mechanism	What did Nesse and Williams learn?
Basic sanitation techniques can have a profound effect on the transmission of diarrheal disease	What has had major effects on the transmission of diarrheal diseases?
Given that water contamination is a major means of transmitting diarrheal disease, efforts to provide clean water supply and improved sanitation have the potential to dramatically cut the rate of disease incidence	What is a major means of the spread of diarrhea disease?
Immunization against the pathogens that cause diarrheal disease is a viable prevention strategy, however it does require targeting certain pathogens for vaccination	What is the downfall of using immunization against the pathogens that cause disease?
Dietary deficiencies in developing countries can be combated by promoting better eating practices	What can be done to combate dietary deficiences?
In many cases of diarrhea, replacing lost fluid and salts is the only treatment needed	What is the basic treatment many cases of diarrhea need?
Oral rehydration solution can be used to prevent dehydration	What can be used to prevent dehydration?
Drinks especially high in simple sugars, such as soft drinks and fruit juices, are not recommended in children under 5 years of age as they may increase dehydration	What are not recommended for younger kids because it can casue more dehydration?
WHO recommends a child with diarrhea continue to be fed	What does WHO recommend?
While antibiotics are beneficial in certain types of acute diarrhea, they are usually not used except in specific situations	Are antibiotics used in diarrhea instances?
Madrasa (Arabic: مدرسة‎, madrasah, pl	What are the origins of the word madrasa?
"The word madrasah derives from the triconsonantal Semitic root د-ر-س D-R-S 'to learn, study', through the wazn مفعل‎; mafʻal, meaning ""a place where something is done"""	What are the root origins of the word madrasah?
However, in English, the term madrasah usually refers to the specifically Islamic institutions	What is the English connotative understanding of the word madrash? 
People of all ages attend, and many often move on to becoming imams	What age groups are usually enrolled in madaris?
"The term ""Islamic education"" means education in the light of Islam itself, which is rooted in the teachings of the Quran - holy book of Muslims"	What is the meaning of Islamic education?
The first institute of madrasa education was at the estate of Hazrat Zaid bin Arkam near a hill called Safa, where Hazrat Muhammad was the teacher and the students were some of his followers	Where was the first madrasa located?
During the rule of the Fatimid and Mamluk dynasties and their successor states in the medieval Middle East, many of the ruling elite founded madaris through a religious endowment known as the waqf	Which class of people founded the madaris during the medieval period?
The madaris, however, were not centres of advanced scientific study; scientific advances in Islam were usually carried out by scholars working under the patronage of royal courts	Who traditionally paid for scholars to study natural sciences?
In the medieval Islamic world, an elementary school was known as a maktab, which dates back to at least the 10th century	When were the first recorded Islamic elementary schools?
Ibn Sīnā refers to the secondary education stage of maktab schooling as a period of specialisation when pupils should begin to acquire manual skills, regardless of their social status	What type of skills did Ibn Sina state children should learn in secondary education?
"During its formative period, the term madrasah referred to a higher education institution, whose curriculum initially included only the ""religious sciences"", whilst philosophy and the secular sciences were often excluded"	What discipline was studied in traditional madrasah?
Madaris were largely centred on the study of fiqh 	What term refers to Islamic law?
According to Makdisi, the Latin title licentia docendi 'licence to teach' in the European university may have been a translation of the Arabic, but the underlying concept was very different	What did earning the ijazat al-tadris award students?
Much of the study in the madrasah college centred on examining whether certain opinions of law were orthodox	What determination of the study of law was held to much debate?
Green and Seyyed Hossein Nasr have argued that starting in the 10th century, some medieval Islamic madaris indeed became universities	When did some madaris become considered like traditional colleges?
al-Qarawīyīn University in Fez, Morocco is recognised by many historians as the oldest degree-granting university in the world, having been founded in 859 by Fatima al-Fihri	When was al-Qarawiyin University founded?
Al-Azhar University, founded in Cairo, Egypt in 975 by the Ismaʻīlī Shīʻī Fatimid dynasty as a jāmiʻah, had individual faculties for a theological seminary, Islamic law and jurisprudence, Arabic grammar, Islamic astronomy, early Islamic philosophy and logic in Islamic philosophy	When was Al-Azhar University founded?
In madaris, the ijāzahs were only issued in one field, the Islamic religious law of sharīʻah, and in no other field of learning	What field does the ijazah signify expertise in?
In a sense, the madrasa resembles a university college in that it has most of the features of a university, but lacks the corporate element	What do scholars believe is missing from madaris that prevent them from being considered universities?
"In central and eastern Islamic lands, the view that the madrasa, as a charitable endowment, will remain under the control of the donor , resulted in a ""spurt"" of establishment of madaris in the 11th and 12th centuries"	When did more madaris begin to form more rapidly?
Nevertheless, Makdisi has asserted that the European university borrowed many of its features from the Islamic madrasa, including the concepts of a degree and doctorate	What institutions have been considered to take some its ideas from madaris?
"Generally, some reviewers have pointed out the strong inclination of Makdisi of overstating his case by simply resting on ""the accumulation of close parallels"", but all the while failing to point to convincing channels of transmission between the Muslim and Christian world"	What other religion was considered to share parallels in teaching styles with the Muslim faith?
Prior to the 12th century, women accounted for less than one percent of the world’s Islamic scholars	What percentage of Islamic women were educated before the 1200s?
In particular, many well known women of the time were trained from childhood in music, dancing and poetry	What disciplines were women trained in during the first century?
According to the Sunni scholar Ibn ʻAsākir in the 12th century, there were opportunities for female education in the medieval Islamic world, writing that women could study, earn ijazahs , and qualify as scholars and teachers	What titles could women earn by going to Islamic schools?
""" İnalcık also mentions that while scholars from for example Persia travelled to the Ottomans in order to share their knowledge, Ottomans travelled as well to receive education from scholars of these Islamic lands, such as Egypt, Persia and Turkestan"	Who traveled abroad to get an education at madaris?
Although Ottoman madaris had a number of different branches of study, such as calligraphic sciences, oral sciences, and intellectual sciences, they primarily served the function of an Islamic centre for spiritual learning	What was the essential mission of Islamic schools in the Ottoman Empire?
Medreses were built in as part of a Mosque complex where many programmes, such as aid to the poor through soup kitchens, were held under the infrastructure of a mosque, which reveals the interconnectedness of religion and social life during this period	What kind of social service was provided through the madaris?
The religious establishment forms part of the mainly two large divisions within the country, namely the Deobandis, who dominate in numbers and the Barelvis, who also make up a sizeable portion 	What group makes up a larger percentage of people in India?
In 2005, an estimated 6,000 Muslim Arabic teachers taught in Kerala government schools, with over 500,000 Muslim students	How many Muslim students are there in Kerala?
In Southeast Asia, Muslim students have a choice of attending a secular government or an Islamic school	Who decides if Muslims attend secular schools or traditional madaris?
There are six Madrasahs in Singapore, catering to students from Primary 1 to Secondary 4	How many madrasahs are in Sinagapore?
In 2004, madaris were mainstreamed in 16 Regions nationwide, primarily in Muslim-majority areas in Mindanao under the auspices of the Department of Education 	How many regions in Singapore have widely accepted madaris?
The first Madressa established in North America, Al-Rashid Islamic Institute, was established in Cornwall, Ontario in 1983 and has graduates who are Hafiz and Ulama	When was the first madrasa started in North America?
Western commentators post-9/11 often perceive madaris as places of radical revivalism with a connotation of anti-Americanism and radical extremism, frequently associated in the Western press with Wahhabi attitudes toward non-Muslims	What is the common western perception of the teaching received at madaris?
Miami ) is a city located on the Atlantic coast in southeastern Florida and the seat of Miami-Dade County	In what geographic portion of Florida is Miami located?
In 2012, Miami was classified as an Alpha−World City in the World Cities Study Group's inventory	What classification did the World Cities Study Group give to Miami?
Downtown Miami is home to the largest concentration of international banks in the United States, and many large national and international companies	What does downtown Miami possess more of than any other US city?
"Miami is noted as ""the only major city in the United States conceived by a woman, Julia Tuttle"", a local citrus grower and a wealthy Cleveland native"	Where was Julia Tuttle born?
During the beginning of the 20th century, migrants from the Bahamas and African-Americans constituted 40 percent of the city's population	In the early 1900s, what percentage of Miami's population was of African origin?
Leslie Quigg, did not hide the fact that he, like many other white Miami police officers, was a member of the Ku Klux Klan	To what controversial organization did a Miami chief of police belong?
After Fidel Castro rose to power in Cuba in 1959, many wealthy Cubans sought refuge in Miami, further increasing the population	In what year did Fidel Castro take over Cuba?
Miami and its suburbs are located on a broad plain between the Florida Everglades to the west and Biscayne Bay to the east, which also extends from Florida Bay north to Lake Okeechobee	Where are the Everglades in relation to Miami?
The surface bedrock under the Miami area is called Miami oolite or Miami limestone	What is another name for Miami limestone?
Beneath the plain lies the Biscayne Aquifer, a natural underground source of fresh water that extends from southern Palm Beach County to Florida Bay, with its highest point peaking around the cities of Miami Springs and Hialeah	Along with Miami Springs, where is the highest point of the Biscayne Aquifer?
Miami is partitioned into many different sections, roughly into North, South, West and Downtown	Along with West, Downtown and North, what is the other notable area of Miami?
The southern side of Miami includes Coral Way, The Roads and Coconut Grove	Along with Coconut Grove and Coral Way, what is notably present in southern Miami?
The northern side of Miami also has notable African American and Caribbean immigrant communities such as Little Haiti, Overtown , and Liberty City	What notable theater is present in Overtown?
Miami has a tropical monsoon climate with hot and humid summers and short, warm winters, with a marked drier season in the winter	What is Miami's Köppen climate classification?
The wet season begins some time in May, ending in mid-October	When is the beginning of Miami's wet season?
The city proper is home to less than one-thirteenth of the population of South Florida	What fraction of the southern Florida population lives in Miami?
In 1960, non-Hispanic whites represented 80% of Miami-Dade county's population	What percentage of Miami-Dade's population was non-Hispanic white in 1960?
Because of its proximity to Latin America, Miami serves as the headquarters of Latin American operations for more than 1400 multinational corporations, including AIG, American Airlines, Cisco, Disney, Exxon, FedEx, Kraft Foods, LEO Pharma Americas, Microsoft, Yahoo, Oracle, SBC Communications, Sony, Symantec, Visa International, and Wal-Mart	Approximately how many multinationals have their Latin American operation headquarters in Miami?
Univisión, Telemundo and UniMÁS have their headquarters in Miami, along with their production studios	Along with UniMÁS and Univisión, what Spanish language television station is headquartered in Miami?
Since 2001, Miami has been undergoing a large building boom with more than 50 skyscrapers rising over 400 feet built or currently under construction in the city	How many 400+ foot skyscrapers have been built or are in the process of being built in Miami since 2001?
During the mid-2000s, the city witnessed its largest real estate boom since the Florida land boom of the 1920s	When did the Florida land boom occur?
Miami International Airport and PortMiami are among the nation's busiest ports of entry, especially for cargo from South America and the Caribbean	What is Florida's busiest airport?
Along with finance and business, the beaches, conventions, festivals and events draw over 38 million visitors annually into the city, from across the country and around the world, spending $17	How many tourists come to Miami each year?
Census Bureau, in 2004, Miami had the third highest incidence of family incomes below the federal poverty line in the United States, making it the third poorest city in the USA, behind only Detroit, Michigan and El Paso, Texas 	As of 2004, what city was the poorest in the United States?
The newest addition to the Miami arts scene is the Adrienne Arsht Center for the Performing Arts, the second-largest performing arts center in the United States after the Lincoln Center in New York City, and is the home of the Florida Grand Opera	What is the largest performing arts center in the US?
"In the early 1970s, the Miami disco sound came to life with TK Records, featuring the music of KC and the Sunshine Band, with such hits as ""Get Down Tonight"", "" Shake Your Booty"" and ""That's the Way ""; and the Latin-American disco group, Foxy , with their hit singles ""Get Off"" and ""Hot Number"""	"What group performed the song ""Hot Number""?"
"Miami is also considered a ""hot spot"" for dance music, Freestyle, a style of dance music popular in the 80's and 90's heavily influenced by Electro, hip-hop, and disco"	Along with Electro and disco, what genre of music influenced Freestyle?
This was also a period of alternatives to nightclubs, the warehouse party, acid house, rave and outdoor festival scenes of the late 1980s and early 1990s were havens for the latest trends in electronic dance music, especially house and its ever-more hypnotic, synthetic offspring techno and trance, in clubs like the infamous Warsaw Ballroom better known as Warsaw and The Mix where DJs like david padilla and radio	Who was the Warsaw Ballroom's house DJ?
Restaurants such as Versailles restaurant in Little Havana is a landmark eatery of Miami	What is a notable restaurant in Little Havana?
The Miami area has a unique dialect, which is widely spoken	What is another term for Miami's dialect?
Miami's main four sports teams are the Miami Dolphins of the National Football League, the Miami Heat of the National Basketball Association, the Miami Marlins of Major League Baseball, and the Florida Panthers of the National Hockey League	What sport do the Miami Heat play?
There are over 80 parks and gardens in the city	How many gardens and parks are in Miami?
The government of the City of Miami uses the mayor-commissioner type of system	Under what government system does Miami operate?
The papers left their longtime home in downtown Miami in 2013	When did El Nuevo Herald leave Miami?
Other major newspapers include Miami Today, headquartered in Brickell, Miami New Times, headquartered in Midtown, Miami Sun Post, South Florida Business Journal, Miami Times, and Biscayne Boulevard Times	In what neighborhood of Miami is Miami New Times based?
In 2009, Univisión announced plans to build a new production studio in Miami, dubbed 'Univisión Studios'	When did Univisión announce it was building a production studio in Miami?
One of the busiest international airports in the world, Miami International Airport caters to over 35 million passengers a year	How many passengers use Miami International Airport annually?
"The port is often called the ""Cruise Capital of the World"" and the ""Cargo Gateway of the Americas"""	"Along with ""Cargo Gateway of the Americas,"" what is another nickname for PortMiami?"
Miami's heavy-rail rapid transit system, Metrorail, is an elevated system comprising two lines and 23 stations on a 24	What is the name of Miami's heavy-rail system?
Completion of the Miami Intermodal Center is expected to be completed by winter 2011, and will serve over 150,000 commuters and travelers in the Miami area	What year was to see the completion of the Miami Intermodal Center?
Miami is the southern terminus of Amtrak's Atlantic Coast services, running two lines, the Silver Meteor and the Silver Star, both terminating in New York City	Along with the Silver Star, what Amtrak line runs to Miami?
Florida High Speed Rail was a proposed government backed high-speed rail system that would have connected Miami, Orlando, and Tampa	Along with Orlando, what city would have been connected to Miami via Florida High Speed Rail?
The corner of Flagler Street and Miami Avenue is in the middle of Downtown in front of the Downtown Macy's 	What company was previously headquartered in the Downtown Macy's?
The Rickenbacker Causeway is the southernmost causeway and connects Brickell to Virginia Key and Key Biscayne	Along with Virginia Key, what does the Rickenbacker Causeway connect to Brickell?
"Every month, the city hosts ""Bike Miami"", where major streets in Downtown and Brickell are closed to automobiles, but left open for pedestrians and bicyclists"	"What cannot travel on Downtown Miami streets during ""Bike Miami""?"
In 1682, William Penn founded the city to serve as capital of the Pennsylvania Colony	Who founded Philadelphia?
Based on the similar shifts underway the nation's economy after 1960, Philadelphia experienced a loss of manufacturing companies and jobs to lower taxed regions of the USA and often overseas	What was the historical economic base of Philadelphia?
With a gross domestic product of $388 billion, Philadelphia ranks ninth among world cities and fourth in the nation	What is the GDP of the city?
Before Europeans arrived, the Philadelphia area was home to the Lenape Indians in the village of Shackamaxon	What native American tribe lived in the area before settlement?
Europeans came to the Delaware Valley in the early 17th century, with the first settlements founded by the Dutch, who in 1623 built Fort Nassau on the Delaware River opposite the Schuylkill River in what is now Brooklawn, New Jersey	Who were the first settlers to the Delaware Valley?
In 1681, in partial repayment of a debt, Charles II of England granted William Penn a charter for what would become the Pennsylvania colony	Who founded the Pennsylvania colony?
The city hosted the First Continental Congress before the American Revolutionary War; the Second Continental Congress, which signed the United States Declaration of Independence, during the war; and the Constitutional Convention after the war	What important revolutionary document was signed in Philadelphia?
The state government left Philadelphia in 1799, and the federal government was moved to Washington, DC in 1800 with completion of the White House and Capitol	When did the US government leave Philadelphia for D.C.?
Throughout the 19th century, Philadelphia had a variety of industries and businesses, the largest being textiles	What was Philadelphia's biggest industry during the 19th century?
These immigrants were largely responsible for the first general strike in North America in 1835, in which workers in the city won the ten-hour workday	Who carried out the first strike in North America?
"By the 20th century, Philadelphia had become known as ""corrupt and contented"", with a complacent population and an entrenched Republican political machine"	Which political party controlled Philadelphia in the early 20th century?
The population peaked at more than two million residents in 1950, then began to decline with the restructuring of industry, which led to the loss of many middle-class union jobs	When was the peak of Philadelphia's population?
Philadelphia's central city was created in the 17th century following the plan by William Penn's surveyor Thomas Holme	Who planned the central city?
The City Planning Commission, tasked with guiding growth and development of the city, has divided the city into 18 planning districts as part of the Philadelphia2035 physical development plan	How many planning districts make up Philadelphia?
Frank Furness is considered Philadelphia's greatest architect of the second half of the 19th century, but his contemporaries included John McArthur, Jr	Who is Philadelphia's greatest architect of the later 19th century?
The 548 ft City Hall remained the tallest building in the city until 1987 when One Liberty Place was constructed	How tall is the City Hall?
For much of Philadelphia's history, the typical home has been the row house	What is the dominant type of house in Philadelphia?
Under the Köppen climate classification, Philadelphia falls in the northern periphery of the humid subtropical climate zone 	What climate zone does Philadelphia fall under?
The average window for freezing temperatures is November 6 thru April 2, allowing a growing season of 217 days	What is the average time for freezing temps?
According to the 2014 United States Census estimates, there were 1,560,297 people residing in the City of Philadelphia, representing a 2	What is the 2014 population?
The five largest European ancestries reported in the 2010 United States Census Census included Irish (12	What is the largest European ancestry?
The average population density was 11,457 people per square mile (4,405	What is the density?
In 2013, the percentage of women who gave birth in the previous 12 months who were unmarried was 56 percent	Percentage of unwed births?
According to the Census Bureau, the median household income in 2013 was $36,836, down 7	What was the median household income in 2013?
The city's 25- to 29-year-old age group was the city's largest age cohort	What is the city's largest age group?
Irish, Italians, Polish, Germans, English, and Greeks are the largest ethnic European groups in the city	Name the six largest European ethnic groups in the city?
There has also been an increase of yuppie, bohemian, and hipster types particularly around Center City, the neighborhood of Northern Liberties, and in the neighborhoods around the city's universities, such as near Temple in North Philadelphia and particularly near Drexel and University of Pennsylvania in West Philadelphia	Name three sub-cultures in the Center City?
In 2014, about 8,800 jobs were added to the city's economy	How many jobs were gained in 2014?
Independence National Historical Park is the center of these historical landmarks being one of the country's 22 UNESCO World Heritage Sites	Which is the biggest historical sites?
Philadelphia's major science museums include the Franklin Institute, which contains the Benjamin Franklin National Memorial; the Academy of Natural Sciences; the Mütter Museum; and the University of Pennsylvania Museum of Archaeology and Anthropology	Name the archaeology museum?
The Philadelphia dialect, which is spread throughout the Delaware Valley and South Jersey, is part of Mid-Atlantic American English, and as such it is identical in many ways to the Baltimore dialect	Name the accent spoken in the area?
Areas such as South Street and Old City have a vibrant night life	Name two districts with good night life?
Philadelphia has more public art than any other American city	Which American city has the most public art?
In the 1970s, Philadelphia soul influenced the music of that and later eras	Name a type of music from the 70's that influenced the nation?
Rowing has been popular in Philadelphia since the 18th century	What water sport is popular in the city?
The city uses the strong-mayor version of the mayor-council form of government, which is headed by one mayor, in whom executive authority is vested	What type of government does Philadelphia have?
The Philadelphia County Court of Common Pleas is the trial court of general jurisdiction for Philadelphia, hearing felony-level criminal cases and civil suits above the minimum jurisdictional limit of $7000 under its original jurisdiction; it also has appellate jurisdiction over rulings from the Municipal and Traffic Courts and over decisions of certain Pennsylvania state agencies (e	What is the main trial court called?
From the American Civil War until the mid-20th century, Philadelphia was a bastion of the Republican Party, which arose from the staunch pro-Northern views of Philadelphia residents during and after the war 	What party dominated until the mid-20th century
However, as a result of the city's declining population, it now has only four: the 1st district, represented by Bob Brady; the 2nd, represented by Chaka Fattah; the 8th, represented by Mike Fitzpatrick; and the 13th, represented by Brendan Boyle	How many congressional districts are there in the city?
Like many American cities, Philadelphia saw a gradual yet pronounced rise in crime in the years following World War II	Did the crime rate go up or down after the War years?
Shooting incidents peaked in 2006 when 1,857 shootings were recorded	When did shootings peak in the city?
The city's K-12 enrollment in district run schools has dropped in the last five years from 156,211 students in 2010 to 130,104 students in 2015	Has public school enrollment dropped or increased in the last 5 years?
Graduation rates among district-run schools, meanwhile, have steadily increased in the last ten years	Have grad rates fallen or increased in the last years?
The city's largest private school by number of students is Temple University, followed by Drexel University	What is the largest private institution in the city?
Philadelphia's two major daily newspapers are The Philadelphia Inquirer, which is the eighteenth largest newspaper and third-oldest surviving daily newspaper in the country, and the Philadelphia Daily News	How many major papers are published?
The city also has a number of other, smaller newspapers and magazine in circulation such as the Philadelphia Tribune, which serves the African-American community, the Philadelphia, a monthly regional magazine; Philadelphia Weekly, an weekly-printed alternative newspaper; Philadelphia City Paper another weekly-printed newspaper; Philadelphia Gay News, which services the LGBT community; The Jewish Exponent a weekly-printed newspaper servicing the Jewish community; Philadelphia Metro, free daily newspaper; and Al Día, a weekly newspaper servicing the Latino community	Name a smaller newspaper?
The first commercial broadcasting radio stations appeared in 1922: first WIP, then owned by Gimbel's department store, on March 17, followed the same year by WFIL, WOO, WCAU and WDAS	When did the first radio stations appear?
In the 1930s, the experimental station W3XE, owned by Philco, became the first television station in Philadelphia; it became NBC's first affiliate in 1939, and later became KYW-TV 	Who owned W3XE?
In 1981, large sections of the SEPTA Regional Rail service to the far suburbs of Philadelphia were discontinued due to lack of funding	When did SEPTA service get cut?
Two airports serve Philadelphia: the Philadelphia International Airport , straddling the southern boundary of the city, and the Northeast Philadelphia Airport , a general aviation reliever airport in Northeast Philadelphia	Name the main airport?
Interstate 95 runs through the city along the Delaware River as a main north-south artery known as the Delaware Expressway	What is the main north-south freeway called?
Woodhaven Road , built in 1966, and Cottman Avenue serve the neighborhoods of Northeast Philadelphia, running between Interstate 95 and the Roosevelt Boulevard (U	When was Woodhaven road built?
Philadelphia is also a major hub for Greyhound Lines, which operates 24-hour service to points east of the Mississippi River	What bus line uses the city as a hub?
Since the early days of rail transport in the United States, Philadelphia has served as hub for several major rail companies, particularly the Pennsylvania Railroad and the Reading Railroad	Name 2 rail companies that use the city as a hub?
Historically, Philadelphia sourced its water by the Fairmount Water Works, the nation's first major urban water supply system	What was the first water supply system called?
Philadelphia Gas Works , overseen by the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission, is the nation's largest municipally owned natural gas utility	What is the largest city owned gas utility?
"Southeastern Pennsylvania was assigned the 215 area code in 1947 when the North American Numbering Plan of the ""Bell System"" went into effect"	What area code is used in Philadelphia in 1947?
Another landmark, the Toruń Triangle, honoring the sister city relationship with Toruń, Poland, was constructed in 1976, west of the United Way building at 18th Street and the Benjamin Franklin Parkway	What city in Poland is a sister city to Philadelphia?
He graduated from Yale University class of 1966 with a political science major	What was Kerry's major?
from Boston College Law School, Kerry worked in Massachusetts as an Assistant District Attorney	Where did Kerry get a law degree?
In his 2004 presidential campaign, Kerry criticized George W	When did Kerry run for president?
John Forbes Kerry was born on December 11, 1943 in Aurora, Colorado, at Fitzsimons Army Hospital	What is Kerry's middle name?
In his sophomore year, Kerry became the Chairman of the Liberal Party of the Yale Political Union, and a year later he served as President of the Union	What was Kerry's role in the Yale Political Union as a junior?
On February 18, 1966, Kerry enlisted in the Naval Reserve	When did Kerry join the Naval Reserve?
"""I didn't really want to get involved in the war"", Kerry said in a book of Vietnam reminiscences published in 1986"	When did Kerry publish his memories of Vietnam?
During the night of December 2 and early morning of December 3, 1968, Kerry was in charge of a small boat operating near a peninsula north of Cam Ranh Bay together with a Swift boat 	Where was Kerry's boat on Dec 2-3, 1968?
Kerry received his second Purple Heart for a wound received in action on the Bồ Đề River on February 20, 1969	When did Kerry earn his 2nd Purple Heart?
Eight days later, on February 28, 1969, came the events for which Kerry was awarded his Silver Star Medal	When did Kerry earn a Silver Star?
Kerry's commanding officer, Lieutenant Commander George Elliott, stated to Douglas Brinkley in 2003 that he did not know whether to court-martial Kerry for beaching the boat without orders or give him a medal for saving the crew	Who was Kerry's commander?
On March 13, 1969, on the Bái Háp River, Kerry was in charge of one of five Swift boats that were returning to their base after performing an Operation Sealords mission to transport South Vietnamese troops from the garrison at Cái Nước and MIKE Force advisors for a raid on a Vietcong camp located on the Rach Dong Cung canal	Where was Kerry on Mar 13, 1969?
James Rassmann, a Green Beret advisor who was aboard Kerry's PCF-94, was knocked overboard when, according to witnesses and the documentation of the event, a mine or rocket exploded close to the boat	What boat was Rassmann on?
After Kerry's third qualifying wound, he was entitled per Navy regulations to reassignment away from combat duties	Which wound allowed Kerry to leave combat duty?
Bush since the 2000 Presidential election , John Kerry's contrasting status as a decorated Vietnam War veteran posed a problem for Bush's re-election campaign, which Republicans sought to counter by calling Kerry's war record into question	Who kept George W. Bush out of Vietnam?
Then numbering about 20,000, VVAW was considered by some to be an effective, if controversial, component of the antiwar movement	How many members did VVAW have when Kerry joined it?
Senate committee hearing on proposals relating to ending the war	What was the topic of the hearing Kerry testified on?
Kerry was arrested on May 30, 1971, during a VVAW march to honor American POWs held captive by North Vietnam	When was Kerry arrested for protesting?
Philbin of Massachusetts's 3rd congressional district, but deferred in favour of Robert Drinan, a Jesuit priest and anti-war activist, who went on to defeat Philbin	In which district had Kerry considered running in 1970?
Including Kerry, the Democratic primary race had 10 candidates, including attorney Paul J	What was Paul Sheehy's job?
Durkin, who ran as an Independent	What party did Durkin run as?
"In the final days of the campaign, Kerry sensed that it was ""slipping away"" and Cronin emerged victorious by 110,970 votes (53"	How many votes did Cronin get against Kerry?
"After Kerry's 1972 defeat, he and his wife bought a house in Belvidere, Lowell, entering a decade which his brother Cameron later called ""the years in exile"""	Where did Kerry move after the 1972 election?
In January 1977, Droney promoted him to First Assistant District Attorney, essentially making Kerry his campaign and media surrogate because Droney was afflicted with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis 	When did Kerry become an ADA?
Droney's health was poor and Kerry had decided to run for his position in the 1978 election should Droney drop out	When did Kerry consider running for president if Droney didn't?
Senator from Massachusetts, Paul Tsongas, announced in 1984 that he would be stepping down for health reasons	When did Kerry run for Senate?
On April 18, 1985, a few months after taking his Senate seat, Kerry and Senator Tom Harkin of Iowa traveled to Nicaragua and met the country's president, Daniel Ortega	When did Kerry visit Nicaragua?
Meanwhile, Kerry's staff began their own investigations and, on October 14, issued a report that exposed illegal activities on the part of Lieutenant Colonel Oliver North, who had set up a private network involving the National Security Council and the CIA to deliver military equipment to right-wing Nicaraguan rebels 	Who did Kerry's staff expose in an Oct 14 report?
payments to drug traffickers by the U	Who was the State Department giving money to?
During their investigation of Noriega, Kerry's staff found reason to believe that the Pakistan-based Bank of Credit and Commerce International had facilitated Noriega's drug trafficking and money laundering	Where is the BCCI based?
In 1996, Kerry faced a difficult re-election fight against Governor William Weld, a popular Republican incumbent who had been re-elected in 1994 with 71% of the vote	Who ran against Kerry in 1996?
""" He also said that from the context of the speech which, prior to the ""stuck in Iraq"" line, made several specific references to Bush and elements of his biography, that Kerry was referring to President Bush and not American troops in general"	Who was Kerry saying was stuck in Iraq?
"Kerry ""has emerged in the past few years as an important envoy for Afghanistan and Pakistan during times of crisis,"" a Washington Post report stated in May 2011, as Kerry undertook another trip to the two countries"	Who did the Washington Post say Kerry was an envoy for?
During the 2004 presidential election he was portrayed as a staunch liberal by conservative groups and the Bush campaign, who often noted that in 2003 Kerry was rated the National Journal's top Senate liberal	Who said Kerry was the 'top Senate liberal'?
"In the lead up to the Iraq War, Kerry said on October 9, 2002; ""I will be voting to give the President of the United States the authority to use force, if necessary, to disarm Saddam Hussein because I believe that a deadly arsenal of weapons of mass destruction in his hands is a real and grave threat to our security"	When did Kerry say he intended to support the Iraq War?
Kerry chaired the Senate Select Committee on POW/MIA Affairs from 1991 to 1993	What committee did Kerry chair in 1991-1993?
John Edwards (D-North Carolina	Where was John Edwards a senator?
Bush for the Iraq War	Why did Kerry criticize Bush during the 2004 campaign?
"Kerry established a separate political action committee, Keeping America's Promise, which declared as its mandate ""A Democratic Congress will restore accountability to Washington and help change a disastrous course in Iraq"", and raised money and channeled contributions to Democratic candidates in state and federal races"	What was Kerry's PAC?
On December 15, 2012, several news outlets reported that President Barack Obama would nominate Kerry to succeed Hillary Clinton as Secretary of State, after Susan Rice, widely seen as Obama's preferred choice, withdrew her name from consideration citing a politicized confirmation process following criticism of her response to the 2012 Benghazi attack	When was it reported that Kerry would become SoS?
""" Career State Department officials have complained that power has become too centralized under Kerry's leadership, which slows department operations when Kerry is on one of his frequent overseas trips"	Who complained about how Kerry ran the State Dept?
"In January 2014, having met with Secretary of State, Archbishop Pietro Parolin, Kerry said ""We touched on just about every major issue that we are both working on, that are issues of concern to all of us"	Who met Kerry in Jan 2014?
"Kerry said on September 9 in response to a reporter's question about whether Syrian President Bashar al-Assad could avert a military strike: ""He could turn over every single bit of his chemical weapons to the international community in the next week"	Who was Syria's president in 2014?
In a speech before the Organization of American States in November 2013, Kerry remarked that the era of the Monroe Doctrine was over	Where did Kerry speak in Nov 2013?
"""Fred"" Kerry and musician Ida Lowe, were immigrants from the Austro-Hungarian Empire"	Who was Kerry's paternal grandmother?
In 1982, Julia asked Kerry for a separation while she was suffering from severe depression	When did Kerry and his wife separate?
Kerry and his second wife, Mozambican-born businesswoman and philanthropist Maria Teresa Thierstein Simões Ferreira , the widow of Kerry's late Pennsylvania Republican Senate colleague Henry John Heinz III, were introduced to each other by Heinz at an Earth Day rally in 1990	Who is Kerry's 2nd wife?
The Forbes 400 survey estimated in 2004 that Teresa Heinz Kerry had a net worth of $750 million	What was Teresa Heinz Kerry's net worth in 2004 according to Forbes?
Kerry is a Roman Catholic, and is said to carry a religious rosary, a prayer book, and a St	What religion is Kerry?
"Kerry told Christianity Today in October 2004 ""I'm a Catholic and I practice, but at the same time I have an open-mindedness to many other expressions of spirituality that come through different religions"	Who interviewed Kerry in Oct 2004 about his religion?
"In addition to the sports he played at Yale, Kerry is described by Sports Illustrated, among others, as an ""avid cyclist"", primarily riding on a road bike"	Who said Kerry is an 'avid cyclist'?
According to the Boston Herald, dated July 23, 2010, Kerry commissioned construction on a new $7 million yacht in New Zealand and moored it in Portsmouth, Rhode Island, where the Friendship yacht company is based	What type of yacht did Kerry buy?
"Rajasthan ; literally, ""Land of Kings"") is India's largest state by area or 10"	How many square kilometers is Rajasthan?
"The first mention of the name ""Rajasthan"" appears in James Tod's 1829 publication Annals and Antiquities of Rajast'han or the Central and Western Rajpoot States of India, while the earliest known record of ""Rajputana"" as a name for the region is in George Thomas's 1800 memoir Military Memories"	When was the first usage of the word Rajasthan?
Parts of what is now Rajasthan were part of the Indus Valley Civilization	Some portions of Rajasthan were involved with what ancient civilization?
P	During what time period were the Hanumangarh in power?
Traditionally the Rajputs, Jats, Meenas, Gurjars, Bhils, Rajpurohit, Charans, Yadavs, Bishnois, Sermals, PhulMali and other tribes made a great contribution in building the state of Rajasthan	Members of what tribe were exterminated in Ajmer?
The Gurjar Pratihar Empire acted as a barrier for Arab invaders from the 8th to the 11th century	What empire stopped Arab invasions?
Modern Rajasthan includes most of Rajputana, which comprises the erstwhile nineteen princely states, two chiefships, and the British district of Ajmer-Merwara	How many princely states of Rajputana contain?
Over the years, the Mughals began to have internal disputes which greatly distracted them at times	What group in the Rajasthan region started to have internal disputes?
The geographic features of Rajasthan are the Thar Desert and the Aravalli Range, which runs through the state from southwest to northeast, almost from one end to the other, for more than 850 kilometres 	Which mountain range goes through Rajasthan?
The northwestern portion of Rajasthan is generally sandy and dry	Dry and sandy conditions are indicative of which region of Rajasthan? 
The Aravalli Range and the lands to the east and southeast of the range are generally more fertile and better watered	What is a characteristic of the region to the east of the Aravalli range?
The Aravalli Range runs across the state from the southwest peak Guru Shikhar , which is 1,722 m in height, to Khetri in the northeast	How many meters high is Guru Shikhar?
The Desert National Park in Jaisalmer is spread over an area of 3,162 square kilometres , is an excellent example of the ecosystem of the Thar Desert and its diverse fauna	Which region contains Desert National Park?
T	Besides Falco jugger, what is the other name for short-toed eagles?
T	What is the latin name of one of the most common buzzards?
T	What is the scientific name for harrier?
Ranthambore National Park is known worldwide for its tiger population and is considered by both wilderness lovers and photographers as one of the best place in India to spot tigers	What Rajasthani national park is known for its tigers?
Rajasthan's economy is primarily agricultural and pastoral	The Rajasthan economy is largely composed of what type of industries?
Rajasthan is the second largest producer of polyester fibre in India	What type of fibre is Rajasthan ranked 2nd in production of?
This earning is expected to reach ₹250 million per day in 2013 	What are earnings from crude oil in Rajasthan expected to be in 2013?
Food that could last for several days and could be eaten without heating was preferred	What type of food was preferred in Rajasthani cooking?
The Ghoomar dance from Jodhpur Marwar and Kalbeliya dance of Jaisalmer have gained international recognition	What type of dance comes from Jodhpur Marwar?
The block prints, tie and dye prints, Bagaru prints, Sanganer prints, and Zari embroidery are major export products from Rajasthan	Bagaru and Sanganer represent what type of art?
Spirit possession has been documented in modern Rajasthan	What type of possession has been documented in Rajasthan?
This was the highest leap in the percentage of literacy recorded in India 	What was the rise in female literacy between 1991 and 2001 in Rajasthan?
In Rajasthan, Jodhpur and Kota are two major educational hubs	What are the to main educational hubs of Rajasthan?
Rajasthan attracted 14 percent of total foreign visitors during 2009–2010 which is the fourth highest among Indian states	What percentage of India's foreign visitors came to Rajasthan from 2009 to 2010?
Rajasthan is famous for its forts, carved temples, and decorated havelis, which were built by Rajput kings in pre-Muslim era Rajasthan	Who built the famous decorated havelis in Rajasthan?
Guam formally the Territory of Guam) is an unincorporated and organized territory of the United States	What country is Guam a territory of?
The Chamorros, Guam's indigenous people, settled the island approximately 4,000 years ago	What is the official name given for Guam's indigenous people?
Before World War II, Guam and three other territories – American Samoa, Hawaii, and the Philippines – were the only American jurisdictions in the Pacific Ocean	Along with Guam, which other territories were in the United States jurisdiction before WWII?
:20–21 The matua were located in the coastal villages, which meant they had the best access to fishing grounds, whereas the mana'chang were located in the interior of the island	Where were the matua located on the island?
The first European to discover Guam was Portuguese navigator Ferdinand Magellan, sailing for the King of Spain, when he sighted the island on March 6, 1521 during his fleet's circumnavigation of the globe	What was the nationality of Magellan?
Despite Magellan's visit, Guam was not officially claimed by Spain until January 26, 1565 by General Miguel López de Legazpi	In what year was Guam claimed by Spain?
Spanish colonization commenced on June 15, 1668 with the arrival of Diego Luis de San Vitores and Pedro Calungsod, who established the first Catholic church	When did Spanish colonization commence?
Intermittent warfare lasting from July 23, 1670 until July 1695, plus the typhoons of 1671 and 1693, and in particular the smallpox epidemic of 1688, reduced the Chamorro population from 50,000 to 10,000 to less than 5,000	When did the Smallpox epidemic take place?
After his arrival in 1674, Captain Damian de Esplana ordered the arrest of rebels who attacked the population of certain towns	When did Captain Damian de Esplana arrive?
The United States took control of the island in the 1898 Spanish–American War, as part of the Treaty of Paris	When did the United States take control of the island?
It was the Chamorros from the Northern Marianas who were brought to Guam to serve as interpreters and in other capacities for the occupying Japanese force	Why were the Chamorros brought to Guam?
After World War II, the Guam Organic Act of 1950 established Guam as an unincorporated organized territory of the United States, provided for the structure of the island's civilian government, and granted the people U	What established Guam as an unincorporated territory?
0°E, and has an area of 212 square miles , making it the 32nd largest island of the United States	How many square miles is Guam?
The island of Guam is 30 miles long and 4 to 12 miles wide, 3⁄4 the size of Singapore	How many miles is Guam across?
Guam's climate is characterized as tropical marine moderated by seasonal northeast trade winds	What is Guam's climate characterized as?
During Spanish colonial rule the majority of the population was converted to Roman Catholicism and religious festivities such as Easter and Christmas became widespread	hat years did the Spanish rule Guam?
Two aspects of indigenous pre-Hispanic culture that withstood time are chenchule' and inafa'maolek	What two indiginous pre-hispanic culture has survived to this point?
The core culture or Pengngan Chamorro is based on complex social protocol centered upon respect: From sniffing over the hands of the elders , the passing down of legends, chants, and courtship rituals, to a person asking for permission from spiritual ancestors before entering a jungle or ancient battle grounds	What is the culture of Pengngan Chamorro based on?
The cosmopolitan and multicultural nature of modern Guam poses challenges for Chamorros struggling to preserve their culture and identity amidst forces of acculturation	What posses some challenges for the Chamorros who find it hard to keep their culture?
Guam is governed by a popularly elected governor and a unicameral 15-member legislature, whose members are known as senators	How many people make up the Guam legislation?
In the 1980s and early 1990s, there was a significant movement in favor of the territory becoming a commonwealth, which would give it a level of self-government similar to Puerto Rico and the Northern Mariana Islands	What major movement occurred in Guam in the 80's and 90's?
military has proposed building a new aircraft carrier berth on Guam and moving 8,600 Marines, and 9,000 of their dependents, to Guam from Okinawa, Japan	What has the U.S military proposed?
Lying in the western Pacific, Guam is a popular destination for Japanese tourists	What tourist commonly visits Guam?
"The Compacts of Free Association between the United States, the Federated States of Micronesia, the Republic of the Marshall Islands and the Republic of Palau accorded the former entities of the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands a political status of ""free association"" with the United States"	What is the name of the pact held between the United States, Micronesia, Marshal Islands, and Palau?
"In 1899, the local postage stamps were overprinted ""Guam"" as was done for the other former Spanish colonies, but this was discontinued shortly thereafter and regular U"	In what year was the local postage stamp overprinted and has since been replaced?
The speed of mail traveling between Guam and the states varies depending on size and time of year	What determines the speed in which mail reaches Guam from the United States?
The Commercial Port of Guam is the island's lifeline because most products must be shipped into Guam for consumers	What is considered to be the lifeline of Guam?
Won Pat International Airport, which is a hub for United Airlines	What major airline resides at the airport?
military transport near the end of World War II, the brown tree snake was accidentally introduced to Guam, that previously had no native species of snake	Which animal was accidentally introduced into Guam?
As many as twelve bird species are believed to have been driven to extinction	How many bird species have been driven to extinction in Guam?
An infestation of the coconut rhinoceros beetle , Oryctes rhinoceros, was detected on Guam on September 12, 2007	What insect was detected in 2007?
Wildfires plague the forested areas of Guam every dry season despite the island's humid climate	What plagues the Guam dry season?
Efforts have been made to protect Guam's coral reef habitats from pollution, eroded silt and overfishing, problems that have led to decreased fish populations	What has Guam recently being trying to protect?
The University of Guam and Guam Community College, both fully accredited by the Western Association of Schools and Colleges, offer courses in higher education	Who are these two schools accredited by?
In 2000, 32,000 students attended Guam's public schools	How many students as of 2000 were attending public schools in Guam?
The Government of Guam maintains the island's main health care facility, Guam Memorial Hospital, in Tamuning	Who runs Guam's main health care facility?
This view is commonly contrasted with rationalism, which states that knowledge may be derived from reason independently of the senses	What is commonly contrasted with empiricism?
Aristotle's explanation of how this was possible was not strictly empiricist in a modern sense, but rather based on his theory of potentiality and actuality, and experience of sense perceptions still requires the help of the active nous	What theory was Aristotle's explanation based on?
Stoic epistemology generally emphasized that the mind starts blank, but acquires knowledge as the outside world is impressed upon it	What is the Stoic view?
During the Middle Ages Aristotle's theory of tabula rasa was developed by Islamic philosophers starting with Al Farabi, developing into an elaborate theory by Avicenna and demonstrated as a thought experiment by Ibn Tufail	Whose idea was 'tabula rasa'?
"In the 12th century CE the Andalusian Muslim philosopher and novelist Abu Bakr Ibn Tufail included the theory of tabula rasa as a thought experiment in his Arabic philosophical novel, Hayy ibn Yaqdhan in which he depicted the development of the mind of a feral child ""from a tabula rasa to that of an adult, in complete isolation from society"" on a desert island, through experience alone"	What was 'Abubacer' normally called?
"Their contemporary, Leonardo da Vinci said, ""If you find from your own experience that something is a fact and it contradicts what some authority has written down, then you must abandon the authority and base your reasoning on your own findings"	When was da Vinci born?
1520–1591), father of Galileo and the inventor of monody, made use of the method in successfully solving musical problems, firstly, of tuning such as the relationship of pitch to string tension and mass in stringed instruments, and to volume of air in wind instruments; and secondly to composition, by his various suggestions to composers in his Dialogo della musica antica e moderna 	When did Vincenzo Galilei die?
British empiricism, though it was not a term used at the time, derives from the 17th century period of early modern philosophy and modern science	When was the British empiricism period?
"In response to the early-to-mid-17th century ""continental rationalism"" John Locke proposed in An Essay Concerning Human Understanding a very influential view wherein the only knowledge humans can have is a posteriori, i"	When was 'An Essay Concerning Human Understanding' published?
A generation later, the Irish Anglican bishop, George Berkeley , determined that Locke's view immediately opened a door that would lead to eventual atheism	Who wrote 'Treatise Concerning the Principles of Human Knowledge'?
The Scottish philosopher David Hume responded to Berkeley's criticisms of Locke, as well as other differences between early modern philosophers, and moved empiricism to a new level of skepticism	What did Hume bring to empiricism?
Hume divided all of human knowledge into two categories: relations of ideas and matters of fact 	What types of human knowledge did Hume say there are?
Rather, he maintained, our beliefs are more a result of accumulated habits, developed in response to accumulated sense experiences	What did Hume think our beliefs are?
Most of Hume's followers have disagreed with his conclusion that belief in an external world is rationally unjustifiable, contending that Hume's own principles implicitly contained the rational justification for such a belief, that is, beyond being content to let the issue rest on human instinct, custom and habit	What conclusion do most of Hume's followers disagree with?
Mill's empiricism thus held that knowledge of any kind is not from direct experience but an inductive inference from direct experience	What did Mill say knowledge comes from?
The phenomenalist phase of post-Humean empiricism ended by the 1940s, for by that time it had become obvious that statements about physical things could not be translated into statements about actual and possible sense data	What phase of empiricism ended in the 1940s?
Logical empiricism was an early 20th-century attempt to synthesize the essential ideas of British empiricism (e	What are other terms for logical empiricism?
They saw in the logical symbolism elaborated by Frege and Bertrand Russell a powerful instrument that could rationally reconstruct all scientific discourse into an ideal, logically perfect, language that would be free of the ambiguities and deformations of natural language	When was Bertrand Russell born?
In the extreme empiricism of the neopositivists—at least before the 1930s—any genuinely synthetic assertion must be reducible to an ultimate assertion that expresses direct observations or perceptions	Who were extreme empiricists?
In the late 19th and early 20th century several forms of pragmatic philosophy arose	When did pragmatism arise?
Charles Peirce was highly influential in laying the groundwork for today's empirical scientific method	When was Peirce born?
Among Peirce's major contributions was to place inductive reasoning and deductive reasoning in a complementary rather than competitive mode, the latter of which had been the primary trend among the educated since David Hume wrote a century before	How long before Peirce did Hume write?
"In his Harvard ""Lectures on Pragmatism"" , Peirce enumerated what he called the ""three cotary propositions of pragmatism"" , saying that they ""put the edge on the maxim of pragmatism"""	Who wrote 'Lectures on Pragmatism'?
"Around the beginning of the 20th century, William James coined the term ""radical empiricism"" to describe an offshoot of his form of pragmatism, which he argued could be dealt with separately from his pragmatism – though in fact the two concepts are intertwined in James's published lectures"	Who came up with 'radical empiricism'?
John Dewey modified James' pragmatism to form a theory known as instrumentalism	Who came up with 'instrumentalism'?
In philosophy, idealism is the group of philosophies which assert that reality, or reality as we can know it, is fundamentally mental, mentally constructed, or otherwise immaterial	What do idealist philosophies say is constructed in our minds?
The Hindu idealists in India and the Greek Neoplatonists gave panentheistic arguments for an all-pervading consciousness as the ground or true nature of reality	What Indian thinkers were early idealists?
Beginning with Immanuel Kant, German idealists such as G	What was the ethnicity of Friedrich Wilhelm Joseph Schelling?
"It comes via idea from the Greek idein , meaning ""to see"""	What does ἰδεῖν mean in English?
"Any philosophy that assigns crucial importance to the ideal or spiritual realm in its account of human existence may be termed ""idealist"""	What is the term used for philosophies that consider the spiritual to be of paramount importance?
Subjective idealists like George Berkeley are anti-realists in terms of a mind-independent world, whereas transcendental idealists like Immanuel Kant are strong skeptics of such a world, affirming epistemological and not metaphysical idealism	Who is a notable subjective idealist?
Christian theologians have held idealist views, often based on Neoplatonism, despite the influence of Aristotelian scholasticism from the 12th century onward	In what philosophy was Christian idealism often rooted?
"Plato's theory of forms or ""ideas"" describes ideal forms , as universals existing independently of any particular instance"	What was another term for forms in Plato's theory of forms?
"With the neoplatonist Plotinus, wrote Nathaniel Alfred Boll; ""there even appears, probably for the first time in Western philosophy, idealism that had long been current in the East even at that time, for it taught"	What sort of philosopher was Plotinus?
"Subjective Idealism describes a relationship between experience and the world in which objects are no more than collections or ""bundles"" of sense data in the perceiver"	Along with phenomenalism, what is another term for subjective idealism?
"Collier was influenced by An Essay Towards the Theory of the Ideal or Intelligible World by ""Cambridge Platonist"" John Norris "	"Who was known as the ""Cambridge Platonist""?"
"and proliferation of hyphenated entities such as ""thing-in-itself"" , ""things-as-interacted-by-us"" , ""table-of-commonsense"" and ""table-of-physics"" which are ""warning signs"" for conceptual idealism according to Musgrave because they allegedly do not exist but only highlight the numerous ways in which people come to know the world"	"Who coined the term ""thing-in-itself""?"
Luce and John Foster are other subjectivists	What sort of thinkers were Foster and Luce?
The 2nd edition contained a Refutation of Idealism to distinguish his transcendental idealism from Descartes's Sceptical Idealism and Berkeley's anti-realist strain of Subjective Idealism	What school of thought did Berkeley belong to?
"In the first volume of his Parerga and Paralipomena, Schopenhauer wrote his ""Sketch of a History of the Doctrine of the Ideal and the Real"""	Who wrote Parerga and Paralipomena?
"Friedrich Nietzsche argued that Kant commits an agnostic tautology and does not offer a satisfactory answer as to the source of a philosophical right to such-or-other metaphysical claims; he ridicules his pride in tackling ""the most difficult thing that could ever be undertaken on behalf of metaphysics"	Who censured Kant for his agnostic tautology?
"Hegel called his philosophy ""absolute"" idealism in contrast to the ""subjective idealism"" of Berkeley and the ""transcendental idealism"" of Kant and Fichte, which were not based on a critique of the finite and a dialectical philosophy of history as Hegel's idealism was"	According to Hegel, what sort of idealist was Fichte?
"In his Science of Logic Hegel argues that finite qualities are not fully ""real"" because they depend on other finite qualities to determine them"	When was Science of Logic written?
"Under Hegel's concept of ""subject-object identity,"" subject and object both have Spirit as their conceptual inner reality—and in that sense are identical"	In Hegel's thought, what inner reality is possessed by both subject and object?
Kierkegaard criticised Hegel's idealist philosophy in several of his works, particularly his claim to a comprehensive system that could explain the whole of reality	Who was a notable critic of Hegel?
"A major concern of Hegel's Phenomenology of Spirit and of the philosophy of Spirit that he lays out in his Encyclopedia of the Philosophical Sciences is the interrelation between individual humans, which he conceives in terms of ""mutual recognition"	Who wrote Encyclopedia of the Philosophical Sciences?
In addition, Hegel does believe we can know the structure of God's mind, or ultimate reality	What sort of reality did Hegel perceive God's mind to be?
Moore's radical rejection of idealism	Who wrote The Refutation of Idealism?
Pluralistic idealism such as that of Gottfried Leibniz takes the view that there are many individual minds that together underlie the existence of the observed world and make possible the existence of the physical universe	Who is a notable exponent of pluralistic idealism?
"Howison's personal idealism was also called ""California Personalism"" by others to distinguish it from the ""Boston Personalism"" which was of Bowne"	"Who was an exponent of so-called ""Boston Personalism""?"
McTaggart of Cambridge University, argued that minds alone exist and only relate to each other through love	With what university is J.M.E. McTaggart affiliated?
"Thomas Davidson taught a philosophy called ""apeirotheism"", a ""form of pluralistic idealism"	What was the name of the philosophy preached by Thomas Davidson?
Idealist notions took a strong hold among physicists of the early 20th century confronted with the paradoxes of quantum physics and the theory of relativity	Among what twentieth century scientists was idealism popular?
It is necessary to keep reminding ourselves that all knowledge of our environment from which the world of physics is constructed, has entered in the form of messages transmitted along the nerves to the seat of consciousness	How do receive information from the physical world?
Czech ), formerly known as Bohemian , is a West Slavic language strongly influenced by Latin and German language, spoken by over 10 million people and it is the official language of the Czech Republic	What was Czech formerly known as?
The languages have not undergone the deliberate highlighting of minor linguistic differences in the name of nationalism as has occurred in the Bosnian, Serbian and Croatian standards of Serbo-Croatian	What deliberate action has been done to some languages in the name of nationalism?
One study showed that Czech and Slovak lexicons differed by 80 percent, but this high percentage was found to stem primarily from differing orthographies and slight inconsistencies in morphological formation; Slovak morphology is more regular 	How much do the lexicons of Czech and Slovak differ, according to on study?
"The similarities between Czech and Slovak led to the languages being considered a single language by a group of 19th-century scholars who called themselves ""Czechoslavs"" , believing that the peoples were connected in a way which excluded German Bohemians and Hungarians and other Slavs"	"Who called themselves ""Czechoslavs""?"
Around the sixth century AD, a tribe of Slavs arrived in a portion of Central Europe	When did a tribe of Slavs arrive in Central Europe?
The Czechs' language separated from other Slavic tongues into what would later be called Old Czech by the thirteenth century, a classification extending through the sixteenth century	By the thirteenth century, what had the Czech language separated from?
While Old Czech had a basic alphabet from which a general set of orthographical correspondences was drawn, it did not have a standard orthography	What type of orthography did Old Czech lack?
Bohemia increased in power over the centuries, as its language did in regional importance	What was Czech civilization called back in the day?
Czech continued to evolve and gain in regional importance for hundreds of years, and has been a literary language in the Slovak lands since the early fifteenth century	How many years as Czech continued to evolve and gain in regional importance?
The consensus among linguists is that modern, standard Czech originated during the eighteenth century	When do linguists agree modern Czech originated?
The Czech people gained widespread national pride during the mid-eighteenth century, inspired by the Age of Enlightenment a half-century earlier	What did the Czechs as a people gain during the mid-18th century?
During the revival, in 1809 linguist and historian Josef Dobrovský released a German-language grammar of Old Czech entitled Ausführliches Lehrgebäude der böhmischen Sprache 	What was the professions of Joseph Dobrovský?
Czech, the official language of the Czech Republic , is one of the EU's official languages and the 2012 Eurobarometer survey found that Czech was the foreign language most often used in Slovakia	What is the official language of the Czech republic?
Immigration of Czechs from Europe to the United States occurred primarily from 1848 to 1914	Czechs immigrated from Europe to the U.S. primary from 1848 to when?
In addition to a spoken standard and a closely related written standard, Czech has several regional dialects primarily used in rural areas by speakers less proficient in other dialects or standard Czech	How many regional dialects does Czech have?
The Czech dialects spoken in Moravia and Silesia are known as Moravian 	What are the dialects spoken in Moravia and Silesia known as?
Czech contains ten basic vowel phonemes, and three more found only in loanwords	How many basic vowel phonemes does Czech contain?
Although older German loanwords were colloquial, recent borrowings from other languages are associated with high culture	In Czech, what are loanwords from other languages associated with?
Because Czech uses grammatical case to convey word function in a sentence , its word order is flexible	Czech's word order is flexible because it uses what to convey word function in a sentence?
Czech syntax has a subject–verb–object sentence structure	What is the sentence structure of Czech syntax?
In Czech, nouns and adjectives are declined into one of seven grammatical cases	How many grammatical cases can nouns and adjectives be declined into in Czech?
Czech distinguishes three genders—masculine, feminine, and neuter—and the masculine gender is subdivided into animate and inanimate	How many genders does Czech distinguish?
Nouns are also inflected for number, distinguishing between singular and plural	What are inflected for number in Czech?
Typical of Slavic languages, Czech marks its verbs for one of two grammatical aspects: perfective and imperfective	What do Slavic languages tend to do to their verbs?
The verbs of most aspect pairs differ in one of two ways: by prefix or by suffix	How many ways can a verb in an aspect pair differ?
The infinitive form ends in t 	What verb form is found in Czech dictionaries?
Czech has one of the most phonemic orthographies of all European languages	What language has one of the most phonemic orthographies of all European languages?
Czech typographical features not associated with phonetics generally resemble those of most Latin European languages, including English	What do Czech typographical features not associated with phonetics tend to resemble?
Education is the process of facilitating learning, or the acquisition of knowledge, skills, values, beliefs, and habits	What makes up Education?
After the Fall of Rome, the Catholic Church became the sole preserver of literate scholarship in Western Europe	What occurred after the Fall of Rome with literature?
Usually, formal education takes place in a school environment with classrooms of multiple students learning together with a trained, certified teacher of the subject	Where does formal education take place?
Preschools provide education from ages approximately three to seven, depending on the country, when children enter primary education	Whats the typical age range for pre-school?
Primary education consists of the first five to seven years of formal, structured education	What is another term used for Primary education?
In most contemporary educational systems of the world, secondary education comprises the formal education that occurs during adolescence	What does secondary education comprise of?
Secondary education in the United States did not emerge until 1910, with the rise of large corporations and advancing technology in factories, which required skilled workers	When did secondary education emerge in the United States?
Higher education, also called tertiary, third stage, or postsecondary education, is the non-compulsory educational level that follows the completion of a school such as a high school or secondary school	What was another name used for Higher Education?
University education includes teaching, research, and social services activities, and it includes both the undergraduate level and the graduate level 	What does University education include?
In the past, those who were disabled were often not eligible for public education	What was a rule for disabled people in the past for education?
"While considered ""alternative"" today, most alternative systems have existed since ancient times"	What is another term used for Special Education Services?
In time, some ideas from these experiments and paradigm challenges may be adopted as the norm in education, just as Friedrich Fröbel's approach to early childhood education in 19th-century Germany has been incorporated into contemporary kindergarten classrooms	Whos educatgion approach was introduced in Germany in the 19th century and is used in most Kindergartens?
Indigenous education refers to the inclusion of indigenous knowledge, models, methods, and content within formal and non-formal educational systems	What makes up Indigenous education?
Informal learning is one of three forms of learning defined by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development 	Who defines informal learning?
Informal learning usually takes place outside educational establishments, does not follow a specified curriculum and may originate accidentally, sporadically, in association with certain occasions, from changing practical requirements	Where does informal learning usually take place?
The concept of 'education through recreation' was applied to childhood development in the 19th century	"When was the 'education through recreation"" applied to childhood?"
"Autodidacticism is a contemplative, absorbing process, of ""learning on your own"" or ""by yourself"", or as a self-teacher"	What does Auto didacticism generally mean?
In 2012, the modern use of electronic educational technology had grown at 14 times the rate of traditional learning	In what year did e-learning jump 14 times over traditional leaning?
The conventional merit-system degree is currently not as common in open education as it is in campus universities, although some open universities do already offer conventional degrees such as the Open University in the United Kingdom	What is not as common in open education?
Universal Primary Education is one of the eight international Millennium Development Goals, towards which progress has been made in the past decade, though barriers still remain	What does Universal Primary Education belong to?
Similarities — in systems or even in ideas — that schools share internationally have led to an increase in international student exchanges	What has come from similarities in systems?
Research into LCPS found that over 5 years to July 2013, debate around LCPSs to achieving Education for All objectives was polarised and finding growing coverage in international policy	What does LCPS stand for?
Some claim that there is education inequality because children did not exceed the education of their parents	What are some of the claims being pointed towards education inequality?
Developed countries have people with more resources (housing, food, transportation, water and sewage treatment, hospitals, health care, libraries, books, media, schools, the internet, education, etc	What is the discrepancy between Developed and less developed countries?
People in developed countries have the will and the way to do many things that they want to do	What is one good trait about students from developed countries?
Educational psychology is the study of how humans learn in educational settings, the effectiveness of educational interventions, the psychology of teaching, and the social psychology of schools as organizations	What is the meaning of Education psychology?
Educational psychology can in part be understood through its relationship with other disciplines	How can Educational psychology in part be understood?
Intelligence is an important factor in how the individual responds to education	What is important for a student in education?
Dunn and Dunn focused on identifying relevant stimuli that may influence learning and manipulating the school environment, at about the same time as Joseph Renzulli recommended varying teaching strategies	Who focused on identifying stimuli that can influence learning?
Some theories propose that all individuals benefit from a variety of learning modalities, while others suggest that individuals may have preferred learning styles, learning more easily through visual or kinesthetic experiences	What do some theories believe?
"""The philosophy of education may be either the philosophy of the process of education or the philosophy of the discipline of education"	What can Philosophy education be when we talk about the process?
Instructors in primary and secondary institutions are often called teachers, and they direct the education of students and might draw on many subjects like reading, writing, mathematics, science and history	What is another term used for instructors?
Empirical analyses tend to support the theoretical prediction that poor countries should grow faster than rich countries because they can adopt cutting edge technologies already tried and tested by rich countries	What is the theory behind Empirical analyses?
At the level of the individual, there is a large literature, generally related to the work of Jacob Mincer, on how earnings are related to the schooling and other human capital	Literature on how earnings and how it relates to schooling was greatly influenced by who?
The Renaissance in Europe ushered in a new age of scientific and intellectual inquiry and appreciation of ancient Greek and Roman civilizations	What did the Renaissance in Asia usher in?
Tennessee is bordered by Kentucky and Virginia to the north, North Carolina to the east, Georgia, Alabama, and Mississippi to the south, and Arkansas and Missouri to the west	Which state borders Tennessee to the east?
The state of Tennessee is rooted in the Watauga Association, a 1772 frontier pact generally regarded as the first constitutional government west of the Appalachians	What government formed in 1772 is considered the forerunner of Tennessee?
Beginning during Reconstruction, it had competitive party politics, but a Democratic takeover in the late 1880s resulted in passage of disfranchisement laws that excluded most blacks and many poor whites from voting	Which part dominated Tennessee's politics in the late 1880s?
 Beale Street in Memphis is considered by many to be the birthplace of the blues, with musicians such as W	What locale in Memphis is know as the place where blues was born?
Poultry, soybeans, and cattle are the state's primary agricultural products, and major manufacturing exports include chemicals, transportation equipment, and electrical equipment	What is Tennessee's primary non-meat agricultural product?
"The earliest variant of the name that became Tennessee was recorded by Captain Juan Pardo, the Spanish explorer, when he and his men passed through an American Indian village named ""Tanasqui"" in 1567 while traveling inland from South Carolina"	Who first recorded a territorial name in the region that resembles its current name Tennessee?
The modern spelling, Tennessee, is attributed to James Glen, the governor of South Carolina, who used this spelling in his official correspondence during the 1750s	Which governor is given credit for the name Tennessee as it is now spelled?
"Tennessee is known as the ""Volunteer State"", a nickname some claimed was earned during the War of 1812 because of the prominent role played by volunteer soldiers from Tennessee, especially during the Battle of New Orleans"	By what nickname is Tennessee officially known?
The highest point in the state is Clingmans Dome at 6,643 feet 	What is the elevation of Tennessee's highest point?
Stretching west from the Blue Ridge for approximately 55 miles is the Ridge and Valley region, in which numerous tributaries join to form the Tennessee River in the Tennessee Valley	Approximately how many miles long is Tennessee's Ridge and Valley region?
Knoxville's McGhee Tyson Airport and Chattanooga's Chattanooga Metropolitan Airport , as well as the Tri-Cities' Tri-Cities Regional Airport , provide air service to numerous destinations	Which Tennessee airport has the code TYS?
To the west of this narrow strip of land is a wide area of rolling hills and streams that stretches all the way to the Mississippi River; this area is called the Tennessee Bottoms or bottom land	What is the lowland area of Tennessee between the Tennessee River and Mississippi River called?
Most of the state has a humid subtropical climate, with the exception of some of the higher elevations in the Appalachians, which are classified as having a mountain temperate climate or a humid continental climate due to cooler temperatures	What is the most common climate across Tennessee?
Summers in the state are generally hot and humid, with most of the state averaging a high of around 90 °F during the summer months	What is Tennessee's average high temperature in degree Celsius during the summer?
While the state is far enough from the coast to avoid any direct impact from a hurricane, the location of the state makes it likely to be impacted from the remnants of tropical cyclones which weaken over land and can cause significant rainfall, such as Tropical Storm Chris in 1982 and Hurricane Opal in 1995	Which hurricane brought damaging rains to Tennessee in 1995?
The capital is Nashville, though Knoxville, Kingston, and Murfreesboro have all served as state capitals in the past	Which cities other than Knoxville have been the capital of Tennessee?
The area now known as Tennessee was first inhabited by Paleo-Indians nearly 12,000 years ago	How many years ago was Tennessee first inhabited by humans?
The first recorded European excursions into what is now called Tennessee were three expeditions led by Spanish explorers, namely Hernando de Soto in 1540, Tristan de Luna in 1559, and Juan Pardo in 1567	Which European nationality first explored the Tennessee region?
The first British settlement in what is now Tennessee was built in 1756 by settlers from the colony of South Carolina at Fort Loudoun, near present-day Vonore	In which year did the British first settle in what would become Tennessee?
These renegade Cherokee were referred to by settlers as the Chickamauga	What did American settlers call the Cherokee who attacked Fort Watuaga in 1776?
Three counties of the Washington District broke off from North Carolina in 1784 and formed the State of Franklin	What was the name of the state that three North Carolina counties hoped to form in 1784?
Tennessee was admitted to the Union on June 1, 1796 as the 16th state	Which state was the first formed out of federally controlled territory?
President Martin Van Buren, nearly 17,000 Cherokees—along with approximately 2,000 black slaves owned by Cherokees—were uprooted from their homes between 1838 and 1839 and were forced by the U	Which US President oversaw the forced westward relocation of Cherokees beginning in 1838?
In February 1861, secessionists in Tennessee's state government—led by Governor Isham Harris—sought voter approval for a convention to sever ties with the United States, but Tennessee voters rejected the referendum by a 54–46% margin	Which Tennessee governor championed secession in February of 1861?
Many major battles of the American Civil War were fought in Tennessee—most of them Union victories	Which side won more Civil War battles in Tennessee?
Confederates held East Tennessee despite the strength of Unionist sentiment there, with the exception of extremely pro-Confederate Sullivan County	Which county in East Tennessee was more supportive of the Confederacy than its neighbors?
When the Emancipation Proclamation was announced, Tennessee was mostly held by Union forces	Which forces controlled most of Tennessee when slaves were emancipated?
In 1864, Andrew Johnson was elected Vice President under Abraham Lincoln	Who was elected Vice President of the United States in 1864?
Over the next decade, the state legislature passed increasingly restrictive laws to control African Americans	Who were targeted by restrictive laws passed in Southern states at the end of the 19th century?
In 2002, businessman Phil Bredesen was elected as the 48th governor	Who was elected governor of Tennessee in 2002?
Census Bureau, as of 2015, Tennessee had an estimated population of 6,600,299, which is an increase of 50,947, from the prior year and an increase of 254,194, or 4	What was Tennessee's estimated population in 2015?
In 2000, the five most common self-reported ethnic groups in the state were: American (17	What was Tennessee's most common self-reported ethnic group in 2000?
Tennessee is home to several Protestant denominations, such as the National Baptist Convention ; the Church of God in Christ and the Cumberland Presbyterian Church ; the Church of God and The Church of God of Prophecy 	Which Protestant denomination has its headquarters in Nashville, TN?
Tennessee has over 82,000 farms, roughly 59 percent of which accommodate beef cattle	Roughly how many farms are located in Tennesee?
Major corporations with headquarters in Tennessee include FedEx, AutoZone and International Paper, all based in Memphis; Pilot Corporation and Regal Entertainment Group, based in Knoxville; Eastman Chemical Company, based in Kingsport; the North American headquarters of Nissan Motor Company, based in Franklin; Hospital Corporation of America and Caterpillar Financial, based in Nashville; and Unum, based in Chattanooga	Where in Tennessee is the headquarters of International Paper?
The Tennessee income tax does not apply to salaries and wages, but most income from stock, bonds and notes receivable is taxable	What types of income are exempt from Tennessee state income tax?
In 2014 a record 100 million people visited the state resulting in $17	In which year did Tennessee tourism first exceed 100 million visitors?
9% of tourists, the second highest originating location for tourists to Tennessee is the state of Georgia, accounting for 8	Which other state sent Tennessee the most tourists in 2013?
I-26, although technically an east-west interstate, runs from the North Carolina border below Johnson City to its terminus at Kingsport	Which city is the endpoint of I-26?
states, are dominated by the Republican and the Democratic parties	Which are the two main parties in Tennessee politics?
During Reconstruction, freedmen and former free people of color were granted the right to vote; most joined the Republican Party	Which party did most former slaves join when they were given the right to vote after the Civil War?
Harding over Ohio Governor James Cox, and in 1928, when it more decisively voted for Herbert Hoover over New York Governor Al Smith, a Catholic), the state was part of the Democratic Solid South until the 1950s	What religion was the Democratic presidential candidate that Tennessee voted against in 1928?
By 1960 African Americans comprised 16	In 1960, what group made up 16.45% of Tennessee's population?
In the early 21st century, Republican voters control most of the state, especially in the more rural and suburban areas outside of the cities; Democratic strength is mostly confined to the urban cores of the four major cities, and is particularly strong in the cities of Nashville and Memphis	Which two Tennessee cities are most supportive of the Democratic Party?
In the 2000 presidential election, Vice President Al Gore, a former Democratic U	Which Democratic candidate lost his own state in the 2000 general election?
"Carr decision of the US Supreme Court established the principle of ""one man, one vote"", requiring state legislatures to redistrict to bring Congressional apportionment in line with decennial censuses"	What phrase expresses the Supreme Court's 1962 decision that population overrules geographic consideration in election districting?
The Highway Patrol is the primary law enforcement entity that concentrates on highway safety regulations and general non-wildlife state law enforcement and is under the jurisdiction of the Tennessee Department of Safety	Which Tennessee law enforcement agency looks for road safety violations?
Local law enforcement is divided between County Sheriff's Offices and Municipal Police Departments	Each Tennessee county must elect which law enforcement official?
Before 1913 the method of execution was hanging	What method did Tennessee use for capital punishment before 1913?
In Knoxville, the Tennessee Volunteers college team has played in the Southeastern Conference of the National Collegiate Athletic Association since 1932	What is the nickname of the University of Tennessee, Knoxville athletic teams?
Post-punk is a heterogeneous type of rock music that emerged in the wake of the punk movement of the 1970s	When did post-punk arrive on the scene?
"The term ""post-punk"" was first used by journalists in the late 1970s to describe groups moving beyond punk's sonic template into disparate areas"	Who coined the term post-punk?
"Though the music varied widely between regions and artists, the post-punk movement has been characterized by its ""conceptual assault"" on rock conventions and rejection of aesthetics perceived of as traditionalist, hegemonic or rockist in favor of experimentation with production techniques and non-rock musical styles such as dub, electronic music, disco, noise, jazz, krautrock, world music and the avant-garde"	What were the things that post-punk really got into?
"Nicholas Lezard described post-punk as ""a fusion of art and music"""	How did Nicholas Lezard describe post-punk?
"While some critics, such as AllMusic's Stephen Thomas Erlewine, have employed the term ""post-punk"" to denote ""a more adventurous and arty form of punk"", others have suggested it pertains to a set of artistic sensibilities and approaches rather than any unifying style"	"Who described post-punk as ""a more adventurous and arty form of punk""?"
Generally, post-punk music is defined as music that emerged from the cultural milieu of punk rock in the late 1970s, although many groups now categorized as post-punk were initially subsumed under the broad umbrella of punk or new wave music, only becoming differentiated as the terms came to signify more narrow styles	What is post-punk?
During the initial punk era, a variety of entrepreneurs interested in local punk-influenced music scenes began founding independent record labels, including Rough Trade and Factory 	WHich independent music company was founded by Geoff Travis?
"In late 1977, music writers for Sounds first used the terms ""New Musick"" and ""post punk"" to describe British acts such as Siouxsie and the Banshees and Wire, who began experimenting with sounds, lyrics and aesthetics that differed significantly from their punk contemporaries"	"When did writers for Sounds first mention ""post punk""?"
As the initial punk movement dwindled, vibrant new scenes began to coalesce out of a variety of bands pursuing experimental sounds and wider conceptual territory in their work	When the punk movement started shrinking, what began to fill the void left by their demise?
"Weeks after ending the Sex Pistols, Lydon formed the experimental group Public Image Ltd and declared the project to be ""anti music of any kind"""	Who was responsible for disbanding the Sex Pistols?
The innovative production techniques devised by post-punk producers such as Martin Hannett and Dennis Bovell during this period would become an important element of the emerging music, with studio experimentation taking a central role	What type of production techniques did Dennis Bovell develop?
In the mid 1970s, various American groups had begun expanding on the vocabulary of punk music	What nationality began birthing groups who expanded the vocabulary of punk music?
Also emerging during this period was New York's no wave movement, a short-lived art and music scene that began in part as a reaction against punk's recycling of traditionalist rock tropes and often reflected an abrasive, confrontational and nihilistic worldview	What type of worldview did New York's no wave movement tend to have?
"British post-punk entered the 1980s with support from members of the critical community—American critic Greil Marcus characterised ""Britain's postpunk pop avant-garde"" in a 1980 Rolling Stone article as ""sparked by a tension, humour and sense of paradox plainly unique in present day pop music""—as well as media figures such as BBC DJ John Peel, while several groups, such as PiL and Joy Division, achieved some success in the popular charts"	How did critics respond to British post-punk groups in the 1980s?
However, during this period, major figures and artists in the scene began leaning away from underground aesthetics	Many of the big players in the post-punk scene began leaning away from what as time progressed?
Artists such as Gary Numan, the Human League, Soft Cell, John Foxx and Visage helped pioneer a new synthpop style that drew more heavily from electronic and synthesizer music and benefited from the rise of MTV	What style of music was Gary Numan associated with?
In the early 1980s, Downtown Manhattan's no wave scene transitioned from its abrasive origins into a more dance-oriented sound, with compilations such as ZE's Mutant Disco highlighting a newly playful sensibility borne out of the city's clash of hip hop, disco and punk styles, as well as dub reggae and world music influences	When did Manhattan's no wave scene start becoming more dance-oriented?
In Germany, groups such as Einstürzende Neubauten developed a unique style of industrial music, utilizing avant-garde noise, homemade instruments and found objects	Where did some groups develop a unique style of industrial music?
The original post-punk movement ended as the bands associated with the movement turned away from its aesthetics, often in favor of more commercial sounds	How did bands associated with the original post-punk movement cause it to end?
"Until recently, in most critical writing the post-punk era was ""often dismissed as an awkward period in which punk's gleeful ructions petered out into the vacuity of the Eighties"""	How did most critical writing treat the post-punk era, until recently?
Post-punk was an eclectic genre which resulted in a wide variety of musical innovations and helped merge white and black musical styles	What musical styles did post-punk help merge?
At the turn of the 21st century, a post-punk revival developed in British and American alternative and indie rock, which soon started appearing in other countries, as well	When did a post-punk revival start happening in England and the Colonies?
"In Canada, the term ""football"" may refer to Canadian football and American football collectively, or to either sport specifically, depending on context"	Which North American version of football calls for 12 player per side on the field?
Canadian football is also played at the high school, junior, collegiate, and semi-professional levels: the Canadian Junior Football League, formed May 8, 1974, and Quebec Junior Football League are leagues for players aged 18–22, many post-secondary institutions compete in Canadian Interuniversity Sport for the Vanier Cup, and senior leagues such as the Alberta Football League have grown in popularity in recent years	On which date was the Canadian Junior Football League formed?
The first written account of a game played was on October 15, 1862, on the Montreal Cricket Grounds	On which date was the first Canadian football game for which a written record has survived?
The first attempt to establish a proper governing body and adopted the current set of Rugby rules was the Foot Ball Association of Canada, organized on March 24, 1873 followed by the Canadian Rugby Football Union founded June 12, 1880, which included teams from Ontario and Quebec	On which date was the first governing body for Canadian football formed?
The Burnside rules closely resembling American Football that were incorporated in 1903 by The ORFU, was an effort to distinguish it from a more rugby-oriented game	Which Canadian football rules did the ORFU adopt in 1903?
The Grey Cup was established in 1909 after being donated by Albert Grey, 4th Earl Grey, The Governor General of Canada as the championship of teams under the CRU for the Rugby Football Championship of Canada	Who donated a championship trophy for Canadian football teams in 1909?
Canadian football has mostly been confined to Canada, with the United States being the only other country to have hosted a high-level Canadian football game	Which one country besides Canada has hosted a professional Canadian football game?
Amateur football is governed by Football Canada	Which organization oversees amateur Canadian football?
The Canadian football field is 150 yards long and 65 yards wide with end zones 20 yards deep, and goal lines 110 yards apart	How many yards wide is a Canadian football field?
At the beginning of a match, an official tosses a coin and allows the captain of the visiting team call heads or tails	Which team calls heads or tails in the coin flip before a CFL game?
Play stops when the ball carrier's knee, elbow, or any other body part aside from the feet and hands, is forced to the ground ; when a forward pass is not caught on the fly ; when a touchdown or a field goal is scored; when the ball leaves the playing area by any means ; or when the ball carrier is in a standing position but can no longer move forwards 	What is the term for play stopped because the ball carrier, although not fully tackled, can no longer advance the ball?
Before scrimmage, an official places the ball at the spot it was at the stop of clock, but no nearer than 24 yards from the sideline or 1 yard from the goal line	What minimum distance from the sideline does the official place the ball before play starts?
On the field at the beginning of a play are two teams of 12 	How many players does each side field in an American football game?
Each play constitutes a down	What is another term for a completed play?
First, the only player on the field who may be legally tackled is the player currently in possession of the football 	What is the term for the player that is currently handing the football when play is underway?
Infractions of the rules are punished with penalties, typically a loss of yardage of 5, 10 or 15 yards against the penalized team	What is the usual penalty when the rules of play are violated?
For example, a point-of-foul infraction committed by the defence in their end zone is not ruled a touchdown, but instead advances the ball to the one-yard line with an automatic first down	Where is the ball placed when a defensive penalty is committed in their own end zone?
In most cases, the non-penalized team will have the option of declining the penalty; in which case the results of the previous play stand as if the penalty had not been called	Who can decline a penalty?
"During the last three minutes of a half, the penalty for failure to place the ball in play within the 20-second play clock, known as ""time count"" , is dramatically different from during the first 27 minutes"	At which point in a game is the time the offence takes to put the ball in play measured?
If the 15 minutes of a quarter expire while the ball is live, the quarter is extended until the ball becomes dead	What happens to a quarter whose time expires while the ball is still live in play?
A coin toss is held to determine which team will take possession first; the first team scrimmages the ball at the opponent's 35-yard line and advances through a series of downs until it scores or loses possession	What determines which team gets possession first when extending a game to break a tie?
Considered a prelude to the two world wars and the greatest European war since the Thirty Years War of the 17th century, it once again split Europe into two coalitions, led by Great Britain on one side and France on the other	What countries led the two coalitions during the Seven Years' War?
Realizing that war was imminent, Prussia preemptively struck Saxony and quickly overran it	Who made the first strike of the Seven Years' War?
The Dutch Republic, long-time British ally, kept its neutrality intact, fearing the odds against Britain and Prussia fighting the great powers of Europe, even tried to prevent Britain's domination in India	With whom did the Dutch Republic align?
The war was successful for Great Britain, which gained the bulk of New France in North America, Spanish Florida, some individual Caribbean islands in the West Indies, the colony of Senegal on the West African coast, and superiority over the French trading outposts on the Indian subcontinent	What did Britain gain in North America from the war?
"The war has been described as the first ""world war"", although this label was also given to various earlier conflicts like the Eighty Years' War, the Thirty Years' War, the War of the Spanish Succession and the War of the Austrian Succession, and to later conflicts like the Napoleonic Wars"	What is the grandest label that historians have used to describe the Seven Years' War?
Sweden, fearing Prussia's expansionist tendencies, went to war in 1757 to protect its Baltic dominions, seeing its chance when virtually all of Europe opposed Prussia	What was Sweden's motivation to join the war?
The Dutch Republic, long-time British ally, kept its neutrality intact, fearing the odds against Britain and Prussia fighting the great powers of Europe, even tried to prevent Britain's domination in India	Why did Denmark-Norway remain neutral rather than assisting its longtime ally, Britain?
The war was successful for Great Britain, which gained the bulk of New France in North America, Spanish Florida, some individual Caribbean islands in the West Indies, the colony of Senegal on the West African coast, and superiority over the French trading outposts on the Indian subcontinent	What did Great Britain gain with respect to the French trading outposts on the subcontinent of India?
France’s traditional enemies, Great Britain and Austria, had coalesced just as they had done against Louis XIV	Who was the traditional partner with Great Britain at the beginning of the conflict?
On June 2, 1746, Austria and Russia concluded a defensive alliance that covered their own territory and Poland against attack by Prussia or the Ottoman Empire	What Russian-Austrian agreement preceded the Seven Years War that started in 1755-56?
The Hanoverian king George II of Great Britain was passionately devoted to his family’s continental holdings, but his commitments in Germany were counterbalanced by the demands of the British colonies overseas	What was the house of king George II?
Unbeknownst to his foreign minister, Louis had established a network of agents throughout Europe with the goal of pursuing personal political objectives that were often at odds with France’s publicly stated policies	What was the objective of le Secret du roi?
Frederick saw Saxony and Polish west Prussia as potential fields for expansion but could not expect French support if he started an aggressive war for them	What two geographies did Frederick want for Prussia?
In the attempt to satisfy Austria at the time, Britain gave their electoral vote in Hanover for the candidacy of Maria Theresa's son, Joseph, as the Holy Roman Emperor, much to the dismay of Frederick and Prussia	What country was pleased that Britain used its Hanover vote to elect Joseph as Te Holy Roman Emperor?
He tried as hard as he could for Austria to not get entangled in Hanover's political affairs, and was even willing to trade Austrian Netherlands for France's aid in recapturing Silesia	What was Kaunitz of Austria willing to trade for French help in capturing Silesia?
Empress Elizabeth of Russia was outraged at the duplicity of Britain's position	What was the response of Empress Elizabeth of Russia to the English-Prussian agreement?
"The most important French fort planned was intended to occupy a position at ""the Forks"" where the Allegheny and Monongahela Rivers meet to form the Ohio River "	Where did the French build Fort Duquesne?
News of this arrived in Europe, where Britain and France unsuccessfully attempted to negotiate a solution	Which country dispatched regular troops to North America?
It would let colonies defend themselves or would offer only minimal help , anticipating that fights for the colonies would most likely be lost anyway	How much effort did France put into wars to defend its colonies?
They sought to offset the disadvantage of this in Europe by allying themselves with one or more Continental powers whose interests were antithetical to those of their enemies, particularly France	How did the British avoid having large contingents of troops in continental Europe?
As prime minister Pitt committed Britain to a grand strategy of seizing the entire French Empire, especially its possessions in North America and India	What was the grand strategy of prime minister William Pitt?
The British Prime Minister, the Duke of Newcastle, was optimistic that the new series of alliances could prevent war from breaking out in Europe	What was the reason that the British Prime Minister thought that ware in Europe could be prevented?
On 29 August 1756, he led Prussian troops across the border of Saxony, one of the small German states in league with Austria	How did Frederick II of Prussia respond to news of British and French clashes in North America?
Accordingly, leaving Field Marshal Count Kurt von Schwerin in Silesia with 25,000 soldiers to guard against incursions from Moravia or Hungary, and leaving Field Marshal Hans von Lehwaldt in East Prussia to guard against Russian invasion from the east, Frederick set off with his army for Saxony	How did Frederick protect Silesia when he went to invade Saxony?
At the Battle of Lobositz on 1 October 1756, Frederick prevented the isolated Saxon army from being reinforced by an Austrian army under General Browne	What reinforcements were the Saxons expecting?
A combined force of allied German states was organised by the British to protect Hanover from French invasion, under the command of the Duke of Cumberland	How did Britain Protect Hanover?
After winning the bloody Battle of Prague on 6 May 1757, in which both forces suffered major casualties, the Prussians forced the Austrians back into the fortifications of Prague	Where did the Austrians retreat in May of 1757?
However, after five days of artillery bombardment the Russian army was able to storm it	What led to the defeat of the Prussians at Memel?
Things were looking grim for Prussia now, with the Austrians mobilising to attack Prussian-controlled soil and a French army under Soubise approaching from the west	What were reasons that the late 1757 time frame looked bad for Prussia?
T	Name the four opponents of Prussia.
This problem was compounded when the main Hanoverian army under Cumberland was defeated at the Battle of Hastenbeck and forced to surrender entirely at the Convention of Klosterzeven following a French Invasion of Hanover	What Hanoverian leader lost the Battle of Hastenbeck?
Calculating that no further Russian advance was likely until 1758, Frederick moved the bulk of his eastern forces to Pomerania under the command of Marshal Lehwaldt where they were to repel the Swedish invasion	Why did Ferdinand feel comfortable withdrawing troops from the eastern front?
Between 10 and 17 October 1757, a Hungarian general, Count András Hadik, serving in the Austrian army, executed what may be the most famous hussar action in history	What Hungarian general humiliated the Prussians?
In early 1758, Frederick launched an invasion of Moravia, and laid siege to Olmütz 	Where did Frederick invade in 1758
In April 1758, the British concluded the Anglo-Prussian Convention with Frederick in which they committed to pay him an annual subsidy of £670,000	What was the annual financial commitment by Britain to Frederick?
Just east of the Oder in Brandenburg-Neumark, at the Battle of Zorndorf , a Prussian army of 35,000 men under Frederick on Aug	How large a force did Frederick send against the occupying Russians?
The war was continuing indecisively when on 14 October Marshal Daun's Austrians surprised the main Prussian army at the Battle of Hochkirch in Saxony	What Austrian General surprised the Prussian at Hochkirch?
The year 1759 saw several Prussian defeats	How did the Prussian army perform in 1759/
The French planned to invade the British Isles during 1759 by accumulating troops near the mouth of the Loire and concentrating their Brest and Toulon fleets	Where was the planned invasion of Britain by France?
Despite this, the Austrians, under the command of General Laudon, captured Glatz in Silesia	Identify a success of the Austrians?
Britain declared war against Spain on 4 January 1762; Spain reacted by issuing their own declaration of war against Britain on 18 January	Identify a new country that joined the war in 1762?
The Russian army was heavily dependent upon its main magazines in Poland, and the Prussian army launched several successful raids against them	How did the Prussians slow the advance of the Russians?
Britain now threatened to withdraw its subsidies if Prussia didn't consider offering concessions to secure peace	Britain tried to influence Prussia to take what action?
His financial situation was not dire, but his kingdom was devastated and his army severely weakened	In 1763 what was the status of Frederick?
Despite the debatable strategic success and the operational failure of the descent on Rochefort, William Pitt—who saw purpose in this type of asymmetric enterprise—prepared to continue such operations	What was the style of William Pitt's warfare?
"Pitt now prepared to send troops into Germany; and both Marlborough and Sackville, disgusted by what they perceived as the futility of the ""descents"", obtained commissions in that army"	Who decided to send British troops into Germany?
Worsening weather forced the two armies to separate: the ships sailed for the safer anchorage of St	What stopped the planned siege at St. Malo?
Great Britain lost Minorca in the Mediterranean to the French in 1756 but captured the French colonies in Senegal in 1758	What island did Great Britain lose in 1756?
These were Native Americans of the Laurentian valley—the Algonquin, the Abenaki, the Huron, and others	Who were the Seven Nations of Canada?
The latter victory was marred when France's native allies broke the terms of capitulation and attacked the retreating British column, which was under French guard, slaughtering and scalping soldiers and taking captive many men, women and children while the French refused to protect their captives	Who assisted the French in taking forts Oswego and William Henry?
British Prime Minister William Pitt's focus on the colonies for the 1758 campaign paid off with the taking of Louisbourg after French reinforcements were blocked by British naval victory in the Battle of Cartagena and in the successful capture of Fort Duquesne and Fort Frontenac	How did the British assure numerical superiority in taking Louisbourg?
All of Britain's campaigns against New France succeeded in 1759, part of what became known as an Annus Mirabilis	Which country enjoyed the most success in battles in North America in 1759
If successful, the expedition would have strengthened France's hand at the negotiating table	What advantage would taking St. John's have provided for the French?
The history of the Seven Years' War in North America, particularly the expulsion of the Acadians, the siege of Quebec, the death of Wolfe, and the Battle of Fort William Henry generated a vast number of ballads, broadsides, images, and novels , maps and other printed materials, which testify to how this event held the imagination of the British and North American public long after Wolfe's death in 1759	Name two major events of the Seven Years' War In North America.
The Anglo-French hostilities were ended in 1763 by the Treaty of Paris, which involved a complex series of land exchanges, the most important being France's cession to Spain of Louisiana, and to Great Britain the rest of New France except for the islands of St	How were the British-French hostilities concluded?
In India, the British retained the Northern Circars, but returned all the French trading ports	What did France retain in India?
The Treaty of Hubertusburg, between Austria, Prussia, and Saxony, was signed on February 15, 1763, at a hunting lodge between Dresden and Leipzig	Who were the parties in the Treaty of Hubertusburg?
Hence, Austria's prestige was restored in great part and the empire secured its position as a major player in the European system	What happened to Austrian prestige due to the war?
Beside the rise of Prussia, Augustus III, although ineffective, could mustered up an army not only from Saxony, but also Poland, considering the elector was also the King of Poland	What was the change in the status of Prussia because of the war?
Frederick the Great’s personal reputation was enormously enhanced, as his debt to fortune and to the British subsidy were soon forgotten while the memory of his energy and his military genius was strenuously kept alive	What did the war do for the reputation of Frederick the Great?
The British government was close to bankruptcy, and Britain now faced the delicate task of pacifying its new French-Canadian subjects as well as the many American Indian tribes who had supported France	Who was George III trying to please with the Proclamation of 1763?
"The war had also brought to an end the ""Old System"" of alliances in Europe, In the years after the war, under the direction of Lord Sandwich, the British did try to re-establish this system"	What British nobleman attempted to retain European alliances following the Seven Years' War?
Richard Phillips Feynman was an American theoretical physicist known for his work in the path integral formulation of quantum mechanics, the theory of quantum electrodynamics, and the physics of the superfluidity of supercooled liquid helium, as well as in particle physics for which he proposed the parton model	Feynman proposed a integral model in particle physics, what was it?
Feynman was a keen popularizer of physics through both books and lectures, including a 1959 talk on top-down nanotechnology called There's Plenty of Room at the Bottom, and the three-volume publication of his undergraduate lectures, The Feynman Lectures on Physics	What was the name of Feynman's 1959 talk on nanotech?
Richard Phillips Feynman was born on May 11, 1918, in Queens, New York City, the son of Lucille , a homemaker, and Melville Arthur Feynman, a sales manager	What was the date of Feynman's birth?
From his mother he gained the sense of humor that he had throughout his life	What personality trait did Feynman acquire from his mother?
When Richard was five years old, his mother gave birth to a younger brother, but this brother died at four weeks of age	What happened to Feyman's younger brother?
"An unspecified school-administered IQ test estimated his IQ at 123—high, but ""merely respectable"" according to biographer James Gleick"	What IQ score did Feyman attain in high school?
He attained a perfect score on the graduate school entrance exams to Princeton University in mathematics and physics—an unprecedented feat—but did rather poorly on the history and English portions	Which two sections of the graduate exam did Feynman excel in?
Wilson encouraged Feynman to participate in the Manhattan Project—the wartime U	Which weaponry research did Feynman engage in?
Feynman claimed to be the only person to see the explosion without the very dark glasses or welder's lenses provided, reasoning that it was safe to look through a truck windshield, as it would screen out the harmful ultraviolet radiation	Feynman used this to protect his eyes during the test detonation
"Feynman's other work at Los Alamos included calculating neutron equations for the Los Alamos ""Water Boiler"", a small nuclear reactor, to measure how close an assembly of fissile material was to criticality"	What was the Water Boiler that Feyman worked on?
Due to the top secret nature of the work, Los Alamos was isolated	Feynman quickly bored of Los Alamos because the work was all kept __?
Feynman alludes to his thoughts on the justification for getting involved in the Manhattan project in The Pleasure of Finding Things Out	In which book did Feynman talk about the Manhattan project?
Following the completion of his PhD in 1942, Feynman held an appointment at the University of Wisconsin–Madison as an assistant professor of physics	Where did Feynman receive a job after getting his PhD?
After the war, Feynman declined an offer from the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, New Jersey, despite the presence there of such distinguished faculty members as Albert Einstein, Kurt Gödel and John von Neumann	At which college did Feyman turn down a job?
Despite yet another offer from the Institute for Advanced Study, Feynman rejected the Institute on the grounds that there were no teaching duties: Feynman felt that students were a source of inspiration and teaching was a diversion during uncreative spells	Why did Feynman decide to turn down an offer from the Institute of Advanced Study?
"Feynman has been called the ""Great Explainer"""	Which nickname did Feynman receive?
He also developed Feynman diagrams, a bookkeeping device that helps in conceptualizing and calculating interactions between particles in spacetime, including the interactions between electrons and their antimatter counterparts, positrons	What did Feynman produce that help in understanding calculations between particles in space and time?
The parton model emerged as a complement to the quark model developed by his Caltech colleague Murray Gell-Mann	What model did Murray Gell-Mann develop?
After the success of quantum electrodynamics, Feynman turned to quantum gravity	Where did Feynman find success before moving to quantum gravity
Feynman was elected a Foreign Member of the Royal Society in 1965	Which society was Feynman elected to?
"In 1974, Feynman delivered the Caltech commencement address on the topic of cargo cult science, which has the semblance of science, but is only pseudoscience due to a lack of ""a kind of scientific integrity, a principle of scientific thought that corresponds to a kind of utter honesty"" on the part of the scientist"	In which year did Feynman orate the Caltech commencement speech?
"In the late 1980s, according to ""Richard Feynman and the Connection Machine"", Feynman played a crucial role in developing the first massively parallel computer, and in finding innovative uses for it in numerical computations, in building neural networks, as well as physical simulations using cellular automata , working with Stephen Wolfram at Caltech"	What did Feynman help develop in the 1980s?
Feynman diagrams are now fundamental for string theory and M-theory, and have even been extended topologically	What theories do Feynman diagrams help explain?
to his experience on the Rogers Commission, straying from his usual convention of brief, light-hearted anecdotes to deliver an extended and sober narrative	In which way did he write about his experience on the Rogers Commission?
Although born to and raised by parents who were Ashkenazi, Feynman was not only an atheist, but declined to be labelled Jewish	Which religious sect did Feynman refuse to be part of?
While pursuing his PhD at Princeton, Feynman married his high school sweetheart, Arline Greenbaum , despite the knowledge that she was seriously ill with tuberculosis—an incurable disease at the time	Who was Feynman's wife?
Feynman had a great deal of success teaching Carl, using, for example, discussions about ants and Martians as a device for gaining perspective on problems and issues	What analogies did Feynman use to teach Carl?
Feynman traveled to Brazil, where he gave courses at the BCPF and near the end of his life schemed to visit the Russian land of Tuva, a dream that, because of Cold War bureaucratic problems, never became reality	Where did Feynman work at in Brazil?
According to Genius, the James Gleick-authored biography, Feynman tried LSD during his professorship at Caltech	Which illicit drug did Feynman try at Caltech?
At Caltech, he used a nude or topless bar as an office away from his usual office, making sketches or writing physics equations on paper placemats	Where was his second office at Caltech?
"In a 1992 New York Times article on Feynman and his legacy, James Gleick recounts the story of how Murray Gell-Mann described what has become known as ""The Feynman Algorithm"" or ""The Feynman Problem-Solving Algorithm"" to a student: ""The student asks Gell-Mann about Feynman's notes"	Which paper published a story about Feynman in 1992?
The Feynman Lectures on Physics is perhaps his most accessible work for anyone with an interest in physics, compiled from lectures to Caltech undergraduates in 1961–64	Where do the Feynman Lectures on Physics pull information from?
 1942 – 20 October 2011), commonly known as Colonel Gaddafi, was a Libyan revolutionary, politician, and political theorist	When was Gaddafi born, and when did he die?
He outlined his Third International Theory that year, publishing these ideas in The Green Book	What book did Gaddafi publish that detailed his Third Internal Theory?
In 1977, Gaddafi dissolved the Republic and created a new socialist state, the Jamahiriya 	"What does ""Jamahiriya"" mean?"
Muammar Gaddafi was born in a tent near Qasr Abu Hadi, a rural area outside the town of Sirte in the deserts of western Libya	Describe Gaddafi's humble upbringing.
In 1951, the UN created the United Kingdom of Libya, a federal state under the leadership of a pro-western monarch, Idris, who banned political parties and established an absolute monarchy	When did Libya become an independent nation?
Gaddafi's earliest education was of a religious nature, imparted by a local Islamic teacher	Describe Gaddafi's first experience with education.
He read voraciously on the subjects of Nasser and the French Revolution of 1789, as well as the works of Syrian political theorist Michel Aflaq and biographies of Abraham Lincoln, Sun Yat-sen, and Mustafa Kemal Atatürk	Gaddafi was an avid reader. Name three biographies that he read.
Gaddafi briefly studied History at the University of Libya in Benghazi, before dropping out to join the military	What subject did Gaddafi briefly study before joining the military?
""" Gaddafi disliked England, claiming British Army officers racially insulted him and finding it difficult adjusting to the country's culture; asserting his Arab identity in London, he walked around Piccadilly wearing traditional Libyan robes"	How did Gaddafi feel about the British officers?
Gaddafi admired the political changes implemented in the Arab Republic of Egypt under his hero, President Gamal Abdel Nasser	What Egyptian leader impressed Gaddafi?
Idris' government was increasingly unpopular by the latter 1960s; it had exacerbated Libya's traditional regional and tribal divisions by centralising the country's federal system in order to take advantage of the country's oil wealth, while corruption and entrenched systems of patronage were widespread throughout the oil industry	What was happening to Idris' government in the 1960s?
"Gaddafi's Free Officers recognized this as their chance to overthrow the monarchy, initiating ""Operation Jerusalem"""	What was Gaddafi's coup called?
"Addressing the populace by radio, he proclaimed an end to the ""reactionary and corrupt"" regime, ""the stench of which has sickened and horrified us all"	How did Gaddafi announced his leadership?:
Although theoretically a collegial body operating through consensus building, Gaddafi dominated the RCC, although some of the others attempted to constrain what they saw as his excesses	Whose face was most closely associated with Libya's new government?
They purged monarchists and members of Idris' Senussi clan from Libya's political world and armed forces; Gaddafi believed this elite were opposed to the will of the Libyan people and had to be expunged	What did the RCC do with remnants of the monarchy?
Ruling by decree, the RCC maintained the monarchy's ban on political parties, in May 1970 banned trade unions, and in 1972 outlawed workers' strikes and suspended newspapers	What was the RCC's view of political parties?
With crude oil as the country's primary export, Gaddafi sought to improve Libya's oil sector	What was Libya's main export?
In turn, the Libyans' standard of life greatly improved over the first decade of Gaddafi's administration, and by 1979 the average per-capita income was at $8,170, up from $40 in 1951; this was above the average of many industrialized countries like Italy and the U	In 1979, how much did the average per capita income change for Libyans?
The RCC attempted to suppress regional and tribal affiliation, replacing it with a unified pan-Libyan identity	What sort of identity was promoted by the RCC?
The RCC implemented measures for social reform, adopting sharia as a basis	On what philosophy was the RCC's social reforms based?
The influence of Nasser's Arab nationalism over the RCC was immediately apparent	What philosophy influenced the RCC?
After Nasser died in November 1970, his successor, Anwar Sadat, suggested that rather than a unified state, they create a political federation, implemented in April 1971; in doing so, Egypt, Syria and Sudan got large grants of Libyan oil money	Who did Anwar Sadat succeed?
After the 1969 coup, representatives of the Four Powers – France, the United Kingdom, the United States and the Soviet Union – were called to meet RCC representatives	What nations comprised the Four Powers?
Moving to reduce Italian influence, in October 1970 all Italian-owned assets were expropriated and the 12,000-strong Italian community expelled from Libya alongside a smaller number of Jews	How many Italians lived in Libya prior to October of 1970?
His relationship with Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat of Fatah was strained, with Gaddafi considering him too moderate and calling for more violent action	What Palestinian political figure had a poor relationship with Gaddafi?
Gaddafi was indiscriminate in the causes he funded, sometimes switching from supporting one side in a conflict to the other, as in the Eritrean War of Independence	During what conflict did Gaddafi notably switch sides?
"On 16 April 1973, Gaddafi proclaimed the start of a ""Popular Revolution"" in a Zuwarah speech"	"On what date did Gaddafi declare the beginning of a ""Popular Revolution""?"
As part of this Popular Revolution, Gaddafi invited Libya's people to found General People's Committees as conduits for raising political consciousness	What were the Libyan people instructed to create in conjunction with the Popular Revolution?
The People's Committees led to a high percentage of public involvement in decision making, within the limits permitted by the RCC, but exacerbated tribal divisions	What negative consequence did the People's Committees lead to?
In June 1973, Gaddafi created a political ideology as a basis for the Popular Revolution	In what month and year did Gaddafi begin Third International Theory?
Gaddafi summarized Third International Theory in three short volumes published between 1975 and 1979, collectively known as The Green Book	Gaddafi's written work on Third International Theory consisted of how many volumes?
In September 1975, Gaddafi purged the army, arresting around 200 senior officers, and in October he founded the clandestine Office for the Security of the Revolution	In what year was the Office for the Security of the Revolution founded?
Following Anwar Sadat's ascension to the Egyptian presidency, Libya's relations with Egypt deteriorated	Whose rise to the presidency of Egypt led to the decline in relations between Egypt and Libya?
Gaddafi was later infuriated when Egypt and Syria planned the Yom Kippur War against Israel without consulting him, and was angered when Egypt conceded to peace talks rather than continuing the war	Who was allied with Egypt during the Yom Kippur War?
Gaddafi sought to develop closer links in the Maghreb; in January 1974 Libya and Tunisia announced a political union, the Arab Islamic Republic	What country formed a political union with Libya in 1974?
"Dissolving the Libyan Arab Republic, it was replaced by the Great Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya , a ""state of the masses"" conceptualized by Gaddafi"	What was the name of the state founded in Libya on March 2, 1977?
"Debate remained limited, and major decisions regarding the economy and defence were avoided or dealt with cursorily; the GPC largely remained ""a rubber stamp"" for Gaddafi's policies"	What was the GPC accused of being vis-à-vis Gaddafi?
"With preceding legal institutions abolished, Gaddafi envisioned the Jamahiriya as following the Qur'an for legal guidance, adopting sharia law; he proclaimed ""man-made"" laws unnatural and dictatorial, only permitting Allah's law"	What book did the Jamahiriya look to for legal advice?
In December 1978, Gaddafi stepped down as Secretary-General of the GPC, announcing his new focus on revolutionary rather than governmental activities; this was part of his new emphasis on separating the apparatus of the revolution from the government	In what year did Gaddafi resign from his position in the GPC?
"In September, Gaddafi called for the People's Committees to eliminate the ""bureaucracy of the public sector"" and the ""dictatorship of the private sector""; the People's Committees took control of several hundred companies, converting them into worker cooperatives run by elected representatives"	In September of 1978, what bureaucracy did Gaddafi speak out against?
On 2 March 1979, the GPC announced the separation of government and revolution, the latter being represented by new Revolutionary Committees, who operated in tandem with the People's Committees in schools, universities, unions, the police force and the military	On what date did the GPC separate the revolution from the government?
In 1979, the committees began the redistribution of land in the Jefara plain, continuing through 1981	Where did land redistribution begin in 1979?
In February 1978, Gaddafi discovered that his head of military intelligence was plotting to kill him, and began to increasingly entrust security to his Qaddadfa tribe	What tribe did Gaddafi belong to?
"placed Libya on its list of ""State Sponsors of Terrorism"", while at the end of the year a demonstration torched the U"	What list did the United States add Libya to in 1979?
"Focusing on irrigation projects, 1983 saw construction start on ""Gaddafi's Pet Project"", the Great Man-Made River; although designed to be finished by the end of the decade, it remained incomplete at the start of the 21st century"	What was another name for the Great Man-Made River?
In turn, Gaddafi played up his commercial relationship with the Soviets, visiting Moscow again in April 1981 and 1985, and threatening to join the Warsaw Pact	In what years did Gaddafi visit the Soviet Union?
military planes launched a series of air-strikes on Libya, bombing military installations in various parts of the country, killing around 100 Libyans, including several civilians	About how many Libyans died in Operation El Dorado Canyon?
"In May 1987, Gaddafi announced the start of the ""Revolution within a Revolution"", which began with reforms to industry and agriculture and saw the re-opening of small business"	"In what year did the ""Revolution within a Revolution"" begin?"
attack, the army was purged of perceived disloyal elements, and in 1988, Gaddafi announced the creation of a popular militia to replace the army and police	What bodies were intended to be replaced by the popular militia created in 1988?
In 1989, Gaddafi was overjoyed by the foundation of the Arab Maghreb Union, uniting Libya in an economic pact with Mauritania, Morocco, Tunisia and Algeria, viewing it as beginnings of a new Pan-Arab union	Along with Libya, Morocco, Tunisia and Algeria, who was a founding member of the Arab Maghreb Union?
From 1997 to 2000, Libya initiated cooperative agreements or bilateral aid arrangements with 10 African states, and in 1999 joined the Community of Sahel-Saharan States	What organization did Libya join in 1999?
Libya also cemented connections with China and North Korea, being visited by Chinese President Jiang Zemin in April 2002	What world leader notably visited Libya in 2002?
Gaddafi welcomed these reforms, calling for wide-scale privatization in a March 2003 speech	In what month and year did Gaddafi make a speech promoting economic privatization?
Following the start of the Arab Spring in 2011, Gaddafi spoke out in favour of Tunisian President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali, then threatened by the Tunisian Revolution	In what year did the so-called Arab Spring occur?
"Accusing the rebels of being ""drugged"" and linked to al-Qaeda, Gaddafi proclaimed that he would die a martyr rather than leave Libya"	Who did Gaddafi accuse the Libyan rebels of being linked to?
On 26 February the United Nations Security Council passed Resolution 1970, suspending Libya from the UN Human Rights Council, implementing sanctions and calling for an International Criminal Court investigation into the killing of unarmed civilians	As a result of Resolution 1970, what body was Libya suspended from?
On 30 April a NATO airstrike killed Gaddafi's sixth son and three of his grandsons in Tripoli, though Gaddafi and his wife were unharmed	On what date did NATO kill Gaddafi's son?
On 27 June, the ICC issued arrest warrants for Gaddafi, his son Saif al-Islam, and his brother-in-law Abdullah Senussi, head of state security, for charges concerning crimes against humanity	What position was held by Gaddafi's brother-in-law?
Gaining the support of Amazigh communities of the Nafusa Mountains, who had long been persecuted as non-Arabic speakers under Gaddafi, the NTC armies surrounded Gaddafi loyalists in several key areas of western Libya	What is another term for the Amazigh?
Only a few towns in western Libya—such as Bani Walid, Sebha and Sirte—remained Gaddafist strongholds	In what geographic part of Libya is Bani Walid located?
Other eye-witness accounts claimed that rebels had fatally shot Gaddafi in the stomach; a rebel identifying himself as Senad el-Sadik el-Ureybi later claimed responsibility	Who claimed to have murdered Gaddafi?
On the afternoon of Gaddafi's death, NTC Prime Minister Mahmoud Jibril publicly revealed the news	Who was the prime minister of the NTC?
As a schoolboy, Gaddafi adopted the ideologies of Arab nationalism and Arab socialism, influenced in particular by Nasserism, the thought of Egyptian revolutionary and president Gamal Abdel Nasser, whom Gaddafi adopted as his hero	What philosophy was named for Gamal Abdel Nasser?
Raised within the Sunni branch of Islam, Gaddafi called for the implementation of sharia within Libya	What variety of Islam was Gaddafi raised in?
"In large part due to their support of Israel, Gaddafi despised the United States, considering the country to be imperialist and lambasting it as ""the embodiment of evil"	"What country did Gaddafi refer to as ""the embodiment of evil""?"
"Gaddafi was a very private individual, who described himself as a ""simple revolutionary"" and ""pious Muslim"" called upon by Allah to continue Nasser's work"	Whose efforts did Gaddafi see himself as continuing?
Annick Cojean, a journalist for Le Monde, wrote in her book, Gaddafi's Harem that Gaddafi had raped, tortured, performed urolagnia, and imprisoned hundreds or thousands of women, usually very young	What publication did Annick Cojean work for?
Following his ascension to power, Gaddafi moved into the Bab al-Azizia barracks, a six-mile long fortified compound located two miles from the center of Tripoli	How far is the Bab al-Azizia barracks from Tripoli?
She was the daughter of General Khalid, a senior figure in King Idris' administration, and was from a middle-class background	Who was Gaddafi's first father-in-law?
"Biographers Blundy and Lycett believed that he was ""a populist at heart"	Who referred to Gaddafi as a populist?
"He once said that HIV was ""a peaceful virus, not an aggressive virus"" and assured attendees at the African Union that ""if you are straight you have nothing to fear from AIDS"""	What sort of virus did Gaddafi describe HIV as?
Starting in the 1980s, he travelled with his all-female Amazonian Guard, who were allegedly sworn to a life of celibacy	What was the name of Gaddafi's female bodyguard?
Supporters have also applauded achievements in medical care, praising the universal free healthcare provided under the Gaddafist administration, with diseases like cholera and typhoid being contained and life expectancy raised	What diseases were minimized by Gaddafi's health care policies?
"1"" and Reagan famously dubbed him the ""mad dog of the Middle East"""	What did Reagan call Gaddafi?
"Contrastingly, former Cuban President Fidel Castro commented that in defying the rebels, Gaddafi would ""enter history as one of the great figures of the Arab nations"", while Venezuelan President Hugo Chávez described him as ""a great fighter, a revolutionary and a martyr"	Who referred to Gaddafi as a martyr?
The GNC proceeded to elect Mohammed Magariaf as president of the chamber, and then voted Mustafa A	Who was elected president of the GNC?
Cyprus ; Turkish: Kıbrıs IPA: ), officially the Republic of Cyprus , is an island country in the Eastern Mediterranean Sea, off the coasts of Syria and Turkey	What is the official name of Cypus?
The earliest known human activity on the island dates to around the 10th millennium BC	What is the date of the earliest known human activity on Cyprus?
Cyprus was placed under British administration based on Cyprus Convention in 1878 and formally annexed by Britain in 1914	When was Cyprus placed under British administration?
The Republic of Cyprus has de jure sovereignty over the island of Cyprus and its surrounding waters, according to international law, except for the British Overseas Territory of Akrotiri and Dhekelia, administered as Sovereign Base Areas	The Republic of Cyprus does not have de jure sovereignty over what two British territories? 
During the late Bronze Age the island experienced two waves of Greek settlement	During what Age did Cyprus experience two waves of Greek settlement?
Following the death in 1473 of James II, the last Lusignan king, the Republic of Venice assumed control of the island, while the late king's Venetian widow, Queen Catherine Cornaro, reigned as figurehead	In what year did James II die?
In 1570, a full-scale Ottoman assault with 60,000 troops brought the island under Ottoman control, despite stiff resistance by the inhabitants of Nicosia and Famagusta	In what year did Cyprus face a full-scale Ottoman assault?
The Ottomans abolished the feudal system previously in place and applied the millet system to Cyprus, under which non-Muslim peoples were governed by their own religious authorities	What system did the Ottomans abolish in favor of the millet system?
In 1777–78, 47,000 Muslims constituted a majority over the island's 37,000 Christians	How many Muslims made up the island's population in 1777-78?
As soon as the Greek War of Independence broke out in 1821, several Greek Cypriots left for Greece to join the Greek forces	What year did the Greek war of independence break out?
The island would serve Britain as a key military base for its colonial routes	The island of Cyprus serves as a key military base to what western country?
The idea of enosis was historically part of the Megali Idea, a greater political ambition of a Greek state encompassing the territories with Greek inhabitants in the former Ottoman Empire, including Cyprus and Asia Minor with a capital in Constantinople, and was actively pursued by the Cypriot Orthodox Church, which had its members educated in Greece	Historically, the idea of enosis was part of which other idea?
Initially, the Turkish Cypriots favoured the continuation of the British rule	Initially Turkish Cypriots favoured the continued rule of what Western power?
In January 1950, the Church of Cyprus organised a referendum under the supervision of clerics and with no Turkish Cypriot participation, where 96% of the participating Greek Cypriots voted in favour of enosis, The Greeks were 80	In what year did the Church of Cyprus organize a referendum?
On 16 August 1960, Cyprus attained independence after the Zürich and London Agreement between the United Kingdom, Greece and Turkey	What is the date that Cyrpus attained independence?
However, the division of power as foreseen by the constitution soon resulted in legal impasses and discontent on both sides, and nationalist militants started training again, with the military support of Greece and Turkey respectively	National militants had the support of what two countries?
Intercommunal violence erupted on December 21, 1963, when two Turkish Cypriots were killed at an incident involving the Greek Cypriot police	In December of what year did intercommunal violence erupt?
In 1964, Turkey tried to invade Cyprus in response to the continuing Cypriot intercommunal violence	Who tried to invade Cyprus in 1964?
On 15 July 1974, the Greek military junta under Dimitrios Ioannides carried out a coup d'état in Cyprus, to unite the island with Greece	What date was a coup d'etat carried out in Cyprus?
Three days later, when a ceasefire had been agreed, Turkey had landed 30,000 troops on the island and captured Kyrenia, the corridor linking Kyrenia to Nicosia, and the Turkish Cypriot quarter of Nicosia itself	What did the Turkish troops capture first on the island?
International pressure led to a ceasefire, and by then 37% of the island had been taken over by the Turks and 180,000 Greek Cypriots had been evicted from their homes in the north	How much of the island was controlled by Turks after international pressure led to a ceasefire?
Following the invasion and the capture of its northern territory by Turkish troops, the Republic of Cyprus announced that all of its ports of entry in the north were closed, as they were effectively not under its control	What happened to ports on Cyprus after capture of its northern territory by Turkish troops?
The last major effort to settle the Cyprus dispute was the Annan Plan in 2004, drafted by the then Secretary General, Kofi Annan	In what year did the last major effort to settle the Cyprus dispute take place?
The physical relief of the island is dominated by two mountain ranges, the Troodos Mountains and the smaller Kyrenia Range, and the central plain they encompass, the Mesaoria	What two mountains ranges are located on the island of Cyprus?
Cyprus has one of the warmest climates in the Mediterranean part of the European Union	What type of climate does Cyprus have?
Among all cities in the Mediterranean part of the European Union, Limassol has one of the warmest winters, in the period January – February average temperature is 17–18 °C during the day and 7–8 °C at night, in other coastal locations in Cyprus is generally 16–17 °C during the day and 6–8 °C at night	Which cities has one of the warmest winters in the European Union?
The middle of summer is hot – in July and August on the coast the average temperature is usually around 33 °C during the day and around 22 °C at night ) while in the June and September on the coast the average temperature is usually around 30 °C during the day and around 20 °C at night in Limassol, while is usually around 28 °C during the day and around 18 °C at night in Paphos	When does the middle of summer occur on Cyprus?
Cyprus suffers from a chronic shortage of water	What resource is scarce on Cyprus?
Dams remain the principal source of water both for domestic and agricultural use; Cyprus has a total of 107 dams and reservoirs, with a total water storage capacity of about 330,000,000 m3 (1	What do the people of Cyprus rely on for domestic and agricultural supply of water?
The 1960 Constitution provided for a presidential system of government with independent executive, legislative and judicial branches as well as a complex system of checks and balances including a weighted power-sharing ratio designed to protect the interests of the Turkish Cypriots	What types of branches did the 1960 Constitution provide?
In 1974 Cyprus was divided de facto when the Turkish army occupied the northern third of the island	In what years was Cyprus divided?
The House of Representatives currently has 59 members elected for a five-year term, 56 members by proportional representation and 3 observer members representing the Armenian, Latin and Maronite minorities	How many members are currently in the House of Representatives?
"In January 2011, the Report of the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights on the question of Human Rights in Cyprus noted that the ongoing division of Cyprus continues to affect human rights throughout the island """	Why does the United Nations question the Human rights status of Cyprus?
In 2014, Turkey was ordered by the European Court of Human Rights to pay well over $100m in compensation to Cyprus for the invasion; Ankara announced that it would ignore the judgment	How much was Turkey ordered to pay in compensation to Cyprus?
 The Evangelos Florakis Naval Base explosion, which occurred on 11 July 2011, was the most deadly military accident ever recorded in Cyprus	What incident was the most deadly military accident that occurred on Cyprus?
However, in 2012 it became affected by the Eurozone financial and banking crisis	What affected the Cypriot economy in 2012?
"The 2012–2013 Cypriot financial crisis led to an agreement with the Eurogroup in March 2013 to split the country's second largest bank, the Cyprus Popular Bank , into a ""bad"" bank which would be wound down over time and a ""good"" bank which would be absorbed by the Bank of Cyprus"	What did the March 2013 agreement decide?
According to the latest International Monetary Fund estimates, its per capita GDP at $30,769 is just above the average of the European Union	What is the per capita GDP of Cyprus given by the IMF?
In recent years significant quantities of offshore natural gas have been discovered in the area known as Aphrodite in Cyprus' exclusive economic zone , about 175 kilometres south of Limassol at 33°5′40″N and 32°59′0″E	What resource has been discovered offshore in recent years?
Available modes of transport are by road, sea and air	What are the three modes of transport available on Cyprus?
According to this census, the Greek Cypriot population was 482,000	What was the number of Greek Cypriots on Cyprus in 1973?
According to the 2006 census carried out by Northern Cyprus, there were 256,644 people living in Northern Cyprus	How many people were living in Northern Cyprus according to the 2006 census?
The majority of Greek Cypriots identify as Greek Orthodox, whereas most Turkish Cypriots are adherents of Sunni Islam	What religion do most Greek Cypriots identify with?
Cyprus has two official languages, Greek and Turkish	How many official languages does Cyprus have?
Cypriot universities ignore high school grades almost entirely for admissions purposes	What do Cypriot universities ignore when looking at admission?
The majority of Cypriots receive their higher education at Greek, British, Turkish, other European and North American universities	Where do most Cypriots receiver higher education?
Several traditional food and beverages are similar, as well as expressions and ways of life	Which foods do Greek Cypriots and Turkish Cypriots have in common?
In modern times Cypriot art history begins with the painter Vassilis Vryonides who studied at the Academy of Fine Arts in Venice	Who was the first important Cyprus painter of modern times?
"One of the features of Cypriot art is a tendency towards figurative painting although conceptual art is being rigorously promoted by a number of art ""institutions"" and most notably the Nicosia Municipal Art Centre"	What type of art is being promoted by art institutions in Cyprus?
The traditional folk music of Cyprus has several common elements with Greek, Turkish, and Arabic music including Greco-Turkish dances such as the sousta, syrtos, zeibekikos, tatsia, and karsilamas as well as the Middle Eastern-inspired tsifteteli and arapies	Traditional Cyprus music has what other types of genres in common?
Popular music in Cyprus is generally influenced by the Greek Laïka scene; artists who play in this genre include international platinum star Anna Vissi, Evridiki, and Sarbel	What influences popular music in Cyprus?
"Epic poetry, notably the ""acritic songs"", flourished during Middle Ages"	What type of artistic form flourished at the time of the Middle Ages?
Dimitris Lipertis, Vasilis Michaelides and Pavlos Liasides are folk poets who wrote poems mainly in the Cypriot-Greek dialect	Who are some famous Cypriot folk poets?
Examples of Cyprus in foreign literature, include the works of Shakespeare, with the majority of the play Othello by William Shakespeare set on the island of Cyprus	Where was William Shakespeare's Othello set?
Local television companies in Cyprus include the state owned Cyprus Broadcasting Corporation which runs two television channels	What is the name of a local television company in Cyprus?
As of the year 2000, the annual amount set aside in the national budget stands at Cy Pounds 500,000 	What is the amount in Euros of money set aside for the Cinema Advisory Committee?
Seafood and fish dishes include squid, octopus, red mullet, and sea bass	What are some famous seafood and fish dishes?
Frequently used vegetables include courgettes, green peppers, okra, green beans, artichokes, carrots, tomatoes, cucumbers, lettuce and grape leaves, and pulses such as beans, broad beans, peas, black-eyed beans, chick-peas and lentils	Can you name some common vegetables used in Cyprus?
Tennis player Marcos Baghdatis was ranked 8th in the world, was a finalist at the Australian Open, and reached the Wimbledon semi-final, all in 2006	Which Cypriot tennis player ranked 8th in the world?
In later years, his films began addressing humanistic issues such as the Holocaust , the transatlantic slave trade , war and terrorism 	What issue did Spielberg address in his movie Schindler's List?
Spielberg was born in Cincinnati, Ohio, to an Orthodox Jewish family	Where was Steven Spielberg born?
The unadjusted gross of all Spielberg-directed films exceeds $9 billion worldwide, making him the highest-grossing director in history	How much money has all of Steven Spielberg's movies grossed worldwide?
As a child, Spielberg faced difficulty reconciling being an Orthodox Jew with the perception of him by other children he played with	When did Steven Spielberg have trouble dealing with being an Orthodox Jew?
:548 In 1963, at age sixteen, Spielberg wrote and directed his first independent film, a 140-minute science fiction adventure called Firelight, which would later inspire Close Encounters	What was Spielberg's first indepenent film?
8	How many high school friends did Spielberg have?
While still a student, he was offered a small unpaid intern job at Universal Studios with the editing department	What job was SPielberg offered when he was a student?
"The segment, ""Eyes,"" starred Joan Crawford; she and Spielberg were reportedly close friends until her death"	"Who starred in the TV show segment ""Eyes"""
Based on the strength of his work, Universal signed Spielberg to do four TV films	How many TV films did Universal sign Spielbergo to direct?
Zanuck and David Brown offered Spielberg the director's chair for Jaws, a thriller-horror film based on the Peter Benchley novel about an enormous killer shark	What film did Richard D. Zanuck and David Brown offer Steven Spielberg to direct?
Rejecting offers to direct Jaws 2, King Kong and Superman, Spielberg and actor Richard Dreyfuss re-convened to work on a film about UFOs, which became Close Encounters of the Third Kind 	What films did Spielberg turn down in the 70s?
Spielberg then revisited his Close Encounters project and, with financial backing from Columbia Pictures, released Close Encounters: The Special Edition in 1980	When did Spielberg re-release Close Encounters?
Next, Spielberg teamed with Star Wars creator and friend George Lucas on an action adventure film, Raiders of the Lost Ark, the first of the Indiana Jones films	Who was responsible for Star Wars?
This film and the Spielberg-produced Gremlins led to the creation of the PG-13 rating due to the high level of violence in films targeted at younger audiences	What rating did 'Temple of Doom' receive?
In 1985, Spielberg released The Color Purple, an adaptation of Alice Walker's Pulitzer Prize-winning novel of the same name, about a generation of empowered African-American women during depression-era America	Who wrote 'The Color Purple'?
In 1987, as China began opening to Western capital investment, Spielberg shot the first American film in Shanghai since the 1930s, an adaptation of J	Until the 1980s, when had an American film last been shot in Shanghai?
After two forays into more serious dramatic films, Spielberg then directed the third Indiana Jones film, 1989's Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade	When did the 3rd Indiana Jones film come out?
Spielberg's next film, Schindler's List, was based on the true story of Oskar Schindler, a man who risked his life to save 1,100 Jews from the Holocaust	Whose life was 'Schindler's List' based on?
His next theatrical release in that same year was the World War II film Saving Private Ryan, about a group of U	What war was 'Saving Private Ryan' about?
Spielberg and actor Tom Cruise collaborated for the first time for the futuristic neo-noir Minority Report, based upon the science fiction short story written by Philip K	What movie did Spielberg collaborate with Cruise for?
Also in 2005, Spielberg directed a modern adaptation of War of the Worlds , based on the H	Which studios produced Spielberg's 'War of the Worlds'?
Spielberg's film Munich, about the events following the 1972 Munich Massacre of Israeli athletes at the Olympic Games, was his second film essaying Jewish relations in the world 	What was 'Munich' about?
"In June 2006, Steven Spielberg announced he would direct a scientifically accurate film about ""a group of explorers who travel through a worm hole and into another dimension"", from a treatment by Kip Thorne and producer Lynda Obst"	When did Spielberg announce what would become 'Interstellar'?
The Adventures of Tintin: The Secret of the Unicorn, was not released until October 2011, due to the complexity of the computer animation involved	What was the first non-Pixar movie to win the Best Animated Feature Film award?
Spielberg followed with War Horse, shot in England in the summer of 2010	Where was 'War Horse' filmed?
Spielberg next directed the historical drama film Lincoln, starring Daniel Day-Lewis as United States President Abraham Lincoln and Sally Field as Mary Todd Lincoln	Who starred in 'Lincoln' as Abraham Lincoln?
The film was shot from September to December 2014 on location in New York City, Berlin and Wroclaw, Poland , and was released by Disney on October 16, 2015	When was 'Bridge of Spies' released?
Spielberg also produced the Don Bluth animated features, An American Tail and The Land Before Time, which were released by Universal Studios	What films did Spielberg produce for Don Bluth?
He served as an executive producer for the 1997 film Men in Black, and its sequels, Men in Black II and Men in Black III	When was 'Men In Black' released?
He was an executive producer on the critically acclaimed 2005 TV miniseries Into the West which won two Emmy awards, including one for Geoff Zanelli's score	When did 'Into the West' air?
In 2011, Spielberg launched Falling Skies, a science fiction television series, on the TNT network	Which channel aired 'Falling Skies'?
He has been giving thanks to his games of his division DreamWorks Interactive most notable as Someone's in the Kitchen with script written by Animaniacs' Paul Rugg, Goosebumps: Escape from HorrorLand, The Neverhood , Skullmonkeys, Dilbert's Desktop Games, Goosebumps: Attack of the Mutant , Boombots , T'ai Fu: Wrath of the Tiger , and Clive Barker's Undying 	Who wrote the script for 'Someone's in the Kitchen'?
Spielberg has filmed and is currently in post-production on an adaptation of Roald Dahl's celebrated children's story The BFG	Who wrote 'The BFG'?
After completing filming on Ready Player One, while it is in its lengthy, effects-heavy post-production, he will film his long-planned adaptation of David Kertzer's acclaimed The Kidnapping of Edgardo Mortara	Who wrote 'The Kidnapping of Edgardo Mortara'?
It was set for release on April 25, 2014, with Anne Hathaway and Chris Hemsworth set to star, but Spielberg postponed production indefinitely in January 2013, just before it had been set to begin	When was 'Robopocalypse' scheduled for release?
Most of his films deal with ordinary characters searching for or coming in contact with extraordinary beings or finding themselves in extraordinary circumstances	What theme is common to Spielberg's films?
According to Warren Buckland, these themes are portrayed through the use of low height camera tracking shots, which have become one of Spielberg's directing trademarks	What camera style does Spielberg often use?
In Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade, it is revealed that Indy has always had a very strained relationship with his father, who is a professor of medieval literature, as his father always seemed more interested in his work, specifically in his studies of the Holy Grail, than in his own son, although his father does not seem to realize or understand the negative effect that his aloof nature had on Indy 	What was Indy's father's career?
For instance, he has cast Richard Dreyfuss in several films: Jaws, Close Encounters of the Third Kind, and Always	Which Spielberg films has Dreyfuss been in?
For cinematography, Allen Daviau, a childhood friend and cinematographer, shot the early Spielberg film Amblin and most of his films up to Empire of the Sun; Janusz Kamiński who has shot every Spielberg film since Schindler's List ; and the film editor Michael Kahn who has edited every film directed by Spielberg from Close Encounters to Munich (except E	Which childhood friend worked on Spielberg's films?
A famous example of Spielberg working with the same professionals is his long-time collaboration with John Williams and the use of his musical scores in all of his films since The Sugarland Express 	What are the only Spielberg films since Sugarland Express to not have music by John Williams?
Spielberg first met actress Amy Irving in 1976 at the suggestion of director Brian De Palma, who knew he was looking for an actress to play in Close Encounters	Who did Spielberg begin dating in 1976?
As a result, they broke up in 1979, but remained close friends	When did Spielberg and Irving initially break up?
In 2002, Spielberg was one of eight flagbearers who carried the Olympic Flag into Rice-Eccles Stadium at the Opening Ceremonies of the 2002 Winter Olympic Games in Salt Lake City	In which Olympics was Spielberg a flagbearer?
According to Forbes' Most Influential Celebrities 2014 list, Spielberg was listed as the most influential celebrity in America	When was Spielberg named the 'most influential celebrity in America'?
A collector of film memorabilia, Spielberg purchased a balsa Rosebud sled from Citizen Kane in 1982	When was Citizen Kane released?
Since playing Pong while filming Jaws in 1974, Spielberg has been an avid video gamer	What was the first video game Spielberg played?
Drawing from his own experiences in Scouting, Spielberg helped the Boy Scouts of America develop a merit badge in cinematography in order to help promote filmmaking as a marketable skill	What Boy Scout merit badge did Spielberg help develop?
In 2004 he was admitted as knight of the Légion d'honneur by president Jacques Chirac	Who made Spielberg a knight?
The Science Fiction Hall of Fame inducted Spielberg in 2005, the first year it considered non-literary contributors	When was Spielberg added to the Science Fiction Hall of Fame?
Starting in the coal mines, by the mid-19th century elevators were operated with steam power and were used for moving goods in bulk in mines and factories	For which industry were elevators first used?
The hydraulic crane was invented by Sir William Armstrong in 1846, primarily for use at the Tyneside docks for loading cargo	Who invented the hydraulic crane in 1846?
"In 1845, the Neapolitan architect Gaetano Genovese installed in the Royal Palace of Caserta the ""Flying Chair"", an elevator ahead of its time, covered with chestnut wood outside and with maple wood inside"	"What Neapolitan architect created the ""Flying Chair"" elevator?"
In 1852, Elisha Otis introduced the safety elevator, which prevented the fall of the cab if the cable broke	Who created the safety elevator in 1852?
Construction for Peter Cooper's Cooper Union Foundation building in New York began in 1853	What year did constructrion begin for the Cooper Union Foundation?
The first electric elevator was built by Werner von Siemens in 1880 in Germany	Who built the first electric elevator?
"A modern-day elevator consists of a cab mounted on a platform within an enclosed space called a shaft or sometimes a ""hoistway"""	What is another name for an elevator shaft?
The most common configuration is to have two panels that meet in the middle, and slide open laterally	How do most elevator doors work?
Historically, AC motors were used for single or double speed elevator machines on the grounds of cost and lower usage applications where car speed and passenger comfort were less of an issue, but for higher speed, larger capacity elevators, the need for infinitely variable speed control over the traction machine becomes an issue	Throughout history, what type of engines were used for elevator machines?
In this case, the drive sheave is directly attached to the end of the motor	In a gearless traction engine, what is the drive sheave attached to?
"In each case, cables are attached to a hitch plate on top of the cab or may be ""underslung"" below a cab, and then looped over the drive sheave to a counterweight attached to the opposite end of the cables which reduces the amount of power needed to move the cab"	What reduces the amount of force needed to propel the cab?
This is a separate set of cables or a chain attached to the bottom of the counterweight and the bottom of the elevator cab	"""Compensation"" consists of what?"
The low mechanical complexity of hydraulic elevators in comparison to traction elevators makes them ideal for low rise, low traffic installations	What type of installations are hydraulic elevators best suited for?
A climbing elevator is a self-ascending elevator with its own propulsion	What defines a climbing elevator?
"A elevator of this kind uses a vacuum on top of the cab and a valve on the top of the ""shaft"" to move the cab upwards and closes the valve in order to keep the cab at the same level"	What does this type of elevator use to propel the cage?
In the first half of the twentieth century, almost all elevators had no automatic positioning of the floor on which the cab would stop	Until the mid 1900s most elevators lacked what?
The elevator motor was located at the top of the shaft or beside the bottom of the shaft	Where is the elevator motor found?
Some skyscraper buildings and other types of installation feature a destination operating panel where a passenger registers their floor calls before entering the car	"What function does a ""destination operating panel"" feature?"
One problem is that the system is subject to gaming	What is one example of a limitation on the system? 
To prevent this problem, in one implementation of destination control, every user gets an RFID card to identify himself, so the system knows every user call and can cancel the first call if the passenger decides to travel to another destination to prevent empty calls	What is one way to implement destination control?
During up-peak mode , elevator cars in a group are recalled to the lobby to provide expeditious service to passengers arriving at the building, most typically in the morning as people arrive for work or at the conclusion of a lunch-time period	What is another name for up-peak mode?
It is activated by a key switch either inside the elevator itself or on a centralized control panel in the lobby	How is the special sercice mode enabled?
Inspection service is designed to provide access to the hoistway and car top for inspection and maintenance purposes by qualified elevator mechanics	Who is authorized to provide inspection and/or maintenance of the elevator?
Phase one mode is activated by a corresponding smoke sensor or heat sensor in the building	What initiates Phase one mode?
Phase-two mode can only be activated by a key switch located inside the elevator on the centralized control panel	How is the Phase-two mode enabled?
Once the elevator arrives at the floor, it will park with its doors open and the car buttons will be disabled to prevent a passenger from taking control of the elevator	Upon arriving at the desinated floor, what does the elevator do?
One by one, each car in the group will return to the lobby floor, open its doors and shut down	What sequence of events happens when the power shuts off in a traction elevator and the elevators all stop?
In hydraulic elevator systems, emergency power will lower the elevators to the lowest landing and open the doors to allow passengers to exit	How do hydraulic elevators work in emergencies?
Statistically speaking, cable-borne elevators are extremely safe	What types of elevator hold the highest safety record?
Past problems with hydraulic elevators include underground electrolytic destruction of the cylinder and bulkhead, pipe failures, and control failures	Underground electrolytic malfunctions in hydraulic elevators can result in the destruction of what? 
Safety testing of mine shaft elevator rails is routinely undertaken	What part of the mine shaft requires routine testing?
Passenger elevators capacity is related to the available floor space	What dictates passenger elevator capacities?
Sometimes passenger elevators are used as a city transport along with funiculars	Passenger elevators, used in city transport share similarities to what other ascending and descending vehicles counterbalancing each other? 
A freight elevator, or goods lift, is an elevator designed to carry goods, rather than passengers	What is another name for a freight elevator?
Stage lifts and orchestra lifts are specialized elevators, typically powered by hydraulics, that are used to raise and lower entire sections of a theater stage	How are stage lifts powered?
A residential elevator is often permitted to be of lower cost and complexity than full commercial elevators	What type of elevators are generally less costly than full commercial elevators?
Some types of residential elevators do not use a traditional elevator shaft, machine room, and elevator hoistway	What types of elevators occassionaly do not use a traditional elevator shaft, machine room or hoistway?
Dumbwaiters are small freight elevators that are intended to carry food, books or other small freight loads rather than passengers	What are small freight elevators used for things such as food, called?
Material transport elevators generally consist of an inclined plane on which a conveyor belt runs	An inclined plane with a conveyor belt describes what type of elevator?
Elevators necessitated new social protocols	The invention of elevators brought with it questions of social etiquette and formalities, generally referred to as what?
In addition to the call buttons, elevators usually have floor indicators and direction lanterns	Modern elevator position or floor indicaters often use what type of bulbs?
Direction lanterns are also found both inside and outside elevator cars, but they should always be visible from outside because their primary purpose is to help people decide whether or not to get on the elevator	What is the main function of direction lanterns?
There are several technologies aimed to provide better experience to passengers suffering from claustrophobia, anthropophobia or social anxiety	New technologies aim to provide a better elevator experience to passengers who suffer from what?
In most US and Canadian jurisdictions, passenger elevators are required to conform to the American Society of Mechanical Engineers' Standard A17	In what neighboring countries are passenger elevators required to adhere to Standard A17.1?
Most elevators have a location in which the permit for the building owner to operate the elevator is displayed	Whose name is on the permit required for operation of an elevator? 
As of January 2008, Spain is the nation with the most elevators installed in the world, with 950,000 elevators installed that run more than one hundred million lifts every day, followed by United States with 700,000 elevators installed and China with 610,000 elevators installed since 1949	In 2008, what country had the largest number of elevators?
Double deck elevators are used in the Taipei 101 office tower	What type of elevators are used in the Taipei 101 office tower?
The high-speed observation deck elevators accelerate to a world-record certified speed of 1,010 metres per minute in 16 seconds, and then it slows down for arrival with subtle air pressure sensations	This speed holds what record?
The Twilight Zone Tower of Terror is the common name for a series of elevator attractions at the Disney's Hollywood Studios park in Orlando, the Disney California Adventure Park park in Anaheim, the Walt Disney Studios Park in Paris and the Tokyo DisneySea park in Tokyo	What is the name of the elevator attraction at the Disney World parks across the world?
The passenger cabs are mechanically separated from the lift mechanism, thus allowing the elevator shafts to be used continuously while passengers board and embark from the cabs, as well as move through show scenes on various floors	How are passenger cabs separated from the lift?
Guests ascending to the 67th, 69th, and 70th level observation decks atop the GE Building at Rockefeller Center in New York City ride a high-speed glass-top elevator	What are the 67th, 69th, and 70th floors of the GE Building at Rockerfeller Center nicknamed?
Part of the Haunted Mansion attraction at Disneyland in Anaheim, California, and Disneyland in Paris, France, takes place on an elevator	 The Haunted Mansion at Disneyland in California and the one in Paris, France sharewhat attribute?
Neptune is 17 times the mass of Earth and is slightly more massive than its near-twin Uranus, which is 15 times the mass of Earth and slightly larger than Neptune	What planet is Neptune's near-twin? 
Neptune is not visible to the unaided eye and is the only planet in the Solar System found by mathematical prediction rather than by empirical observation	How was Neptune found? 
Neptune is similar in composition to Uranus, and both have compositions that differ from those of the larger gas giants, Jupiter and Saturn	Which planet is compositionally similar to Neptune? 
For example, at the time of the Voyager 2 flyby in 1989, the planet's southern hemisphere had a Great Dark Spot comparable to the Great Red Spot on Jupiter	What weather did Voyager 2 observe on Neptune? 
Some of the earliest recorded observations ever made through a telescope, Galileo's drawings on 28 December 1612 and 27 January 1613, contain plotted points that match up with what is now known to be the position of Neptune	Who drew Neptune after observing it with a telescope? 
In 1821, Alexis Bouvard published astronomical tables of the orbit of Neptune's neighbour Uranus	What year did Alexis Bouvard publish relevant astronomical tables? 
Heinrich d'Arrest, a student at the observatory, suggested to Galle that they could compare a recently drawn chart of the sky in the region of Le Verrier's predicted location with the current sky to seek the displacement characteristic of a planet, as opposed to a fixed star	Who was Henrich d'Arrest? 
In the wake of the discovery, there was much nationalistic rivalry between the French and the British over who deserved credit for the discovery	What two countries argued over credit for the discovery of Neptune? 
Claiming the right to name his discovery, Le Verrier quickly proposed the name Neptune for this new planet, though falsely stating that this had been officially approved by the French Bureau des Longitudes	Who claimed the right to name Neptune? 
"However, in Chinese, Japanese, and Korean, the planet's name was translated as ""sea king star"" , because Neptune was the god of the sea"	What is the Chinese, Japanese, and Korean translations for Neptune? 
From its discovery in 1846 until the subsequent discovery of Pluto in 1930, Neptune was the farthest known planet	What was Neptune before Pluto was discovered? 
0243×1026 kg, is intermediate between Earth and the larger gas giants: it is 17 times that of Earth but just 1/19th that of Jupiter	How much more mass does Neptune have compared to Earth? 
The mantle is equivalent to 10 to 15 Earth masses and is rich in water, ammonia and methane	What is Neptune's mantle rich in? 
At high altitudes, Neptune's atmosphere is 80% hydrogen and 19% helium	What is Neptune's atmosphere made of? 
Models suggest that Neptune's troposphere is banded by clouds of varying compositions depending on altitude	What is Neptune's clouds competition variants dependent on? 
High-altitude clouds on Neptune have been observed casting shadows on the opaque cloud deck below	On Neptune, which clouds cast shadows on the cloud deck below it? 
For reasons that remain obscure, the planet's thermosphere is at an anomalously high temperature of about 750 K	What is Neptune's temperature in the thermosphere? 
Neptune also resembles Uranus in its magnetosphere, with a magnetic field strongly tilted relative to its rotational axis at 47° and offset at least 0	What is the rotational axis of Neptune's magnetic field? 
Neptune's magnetic field has a complex geometry that includes relatively large contributions from non-dipolar components, including a strong quadrupole moment that may exceed the dipole moment in strength	What is one of Neptune's non-dipolar component what may exceed the dipole moment in strength? 
Neptune has a planetary ring system, though one much less substantial than that of Saturn	What system, like Saturn, does Neptune have? 
Neptune's weather is characterised by extremely dynamic storm systems, with winds reaching speeds of almost 600 m/s —nearly reaching supersonic flow	What dynamic weather does Neptune have?
In 2007, it was discovered that the upper troposphere of Neptune's south pole was about 10 K warmer than the rest of its atmosphere, which averages approximately 73 K 	How much warmer is Neptune's south pole to the rest of it's atmosphere? 
The Scooter is another storm, a white cloud group farther south than the Great Dark Spot	What white cloud group on Neptune is farther south than the dark great spot?
Neptune's dark spots are thought to occur in the troposphere at lower altitudes than the brighter cloud features, so they appear as holes in the upper cloud decks	Where are Neptune's dark spots thought to occur? 
Neptune's more varied weather when compared to Uranus is due in part to its higher internal heating	Why might Neptune have more varied weather than Uranus?
On 11 July 2011, Neptune completed its first full barycentric orbit since its discovery in 1846, although it did not appear at its exact discovery position in the sky, because Earth was in a different location in its 365	When did Neptune complete it's first barycentric orbit since it's discovery?
Neptune's orbit has a profound impact on the region directly beyond it, known as the Kuiper belt	What is the region behind Neptune called? 
The most heavily populated resonance in the Kuiper belt, with over 200 known objects, is the 2:3 resonance	What is the fraction of the most heavily populated resonance in the Kuiper belt? 
Neptune trojans can be viewed as being in a 1:1 resonance with Neptune	What is the resonance of Neptune trojans?
One is that the ice giants were not formed by core accretion but from instabilities within the original protoplanetary disc and later had their atmospheres blasted away by radiation from a nearby massive OB star	What could have blasted Neptune and Uranus's atmosphere with radiation, aiding in creation? 
An alternative concept is that they formed closer to the Sun, where the matter density was higher, and then subsequently migrated to their current orbits after the removal of the gaseous protoplanetary disc	If Neptune formed closer to the sun, what is the matter density?
Neptune has 14 known moons	How many moons does Neptune have?
From July to September 1989, Voyager 2 discovered six moons of Neptune	What discovered six moons of Neptune in 1989?
Most telescopic data was fairly limited until the advent of Hubble Space Telescope and large ground-based telescopes with adaptive optics 	The advent of what telescope made it easier to study Neptune?
Voyager 2 is the only spacecraft that has visited Neptune	What is the only spacecraft to visit Neptune?
Such a hypothetical mission is envisioned to be possible at in the late 2020s or early 2030s	When is the next hypothetical mission to Neptune?
Selection of an electrification system is based on economics of energy supply, maintenance, and capital cost compared to the revenue obtained for freight and passenger traffic	What is of the factors the capital cost of electrification system depends on?
Electric railways use electric locomotives to haul passengers or freight in separate cars or electric multiple units, passenger cars with their own motors	What is used to haul passengers cars?
In comparison to the principal alternative, the diesel engine, electric railways offer substantially better energy efficiency, lower emissions and lower operating costs	What is the principal alternative to electric railways?
Different regions may use different supply voltages and frequencies, complicating through service	What issue can complicate electric railway service?
Railways must operate at variable speeds	What is speed limit for railways?
Motors have very little room for electrical insulation so they generally have low voltage ratings	Why do motors have little space for insulation?
There has, however, been interest among railroad operators in returning to DC use at higher voltages than previously used	What type of electric power garantees lesser loss?
1,500 V DC is used in the Netherlands, Japan, Republic Of Indonesia, Hong Kong , Republic of Ireland, Australia , India , France , New Zealand and the United States 	What is most common voltage for DC supply?
3 kV DC is used in Belgium, Italy, Spain, Poland, the northern Czech Republic, Slovakia, Slovenia, South Africa, Chile, and former Soviet Union countries 	What voltage is being used in railway system of South Africa and Chile?
Most electrification systems use overhead wires, but third rail is an option up to about 1,200 V	What type is mostly used third rail or overhead wires?
DC systems are limited to relatively low voltages and this can limit the size and speed of trains and cannot use low-level platform and also limit the amount of air-conditioning that the trains can provide	Why DC system can effect the speed of trains?
Some street trams used conduit third-rail current collection	What is the other name for the street trams?
"A new approach to avoiding overhead wires is taken by the ""second generation"" tram/streetcar system in Bordeaux, France with its APS "	"What year the ""second generation"" of tram system began to operate in France?"
The London Underground in England is one of the few networks that uses a four-rail system	What type of system does London Underground use?
The key advantage of the four-rail system is that neither running rail carries any current	What is the crucial advantage of four-rail system?
On tracks that London Underground share with National Rail third-rail stock , the centre rail is connected to the running rails, allowing both types of train to operate, at a compromise voltage of 660 V	What is the voltage shared two types of trains UK railroad system?
A few lines of the Paris Métro in France operate on a four-rail power scheme because they run on rubber tyres which run on a pair of narrow roadways made of steel and, in some places, concrete	Why some lines of Paris Metro have to operate on a four-rail system?
An early advantage of AC is that the power-wasting resistors used in DC locomotives for speed control were not needed in an AC locomotive: multiple taps on the transformer can supply a range of voltages	What was a disadvantage of DC system?
DC commutating electric motors, if fitted with laminated pole pieces, become universal motors because they can also operate on AC; reversing the current in both stator and rotor does not reverse the motor	How can DC motor turn universal?
The RhB started trials of the 11 kV system in 1913 on the Engadin line (St	When was the first trail of RhB system tested?
In the United States, 25 Hz, a once-common industrial power frequency is used on Amtrak's 25 Hz traction power system at 12 kV on the Northeast Corridor between Washington, D	What frequency was typically used on US Amtrak?
In the UK, the London, Brighton and South Coast Railway pioneered overhead electrification of its suburban lines in London, London Bridge to Victoria being opened to traffic on 1 December 1909	When was overhead wires system being used for the first time in UK?
Three-phase AC railway electrification was used in Italy, Switzerland and the United States in the early twentieth century	What countries used three-phase AC system in the the beginning of 20th century?
The first attempts to use standard-frequency single-phase AC were made in Hungary as far back as 1923, by the Hungarian Kálmán Kandó on the line between Budapest-Nyugati and Alag, using 16 kV at 50 Hz	What country has first tried to use single-phase AC?
To prevent the risk of out-of-phase supplies mixing, sections of line fed from different feeder stations must be kept strictly isolated	What was the main requirement for electric feeder stations?
These motors may either be DC motors which directly use the DC or they may be 3-phase AC motors which require further conversion of the DC to 3-phase AC 	What nowdays electrification systems can use?
In the Soviet Union, in the 1970s, a comparison was made between systems electrified at 3 kV DC and 25 kV AC 	What two systems were compare in the Soviet Union in 1970?
"Newly electrified lines often show a ""sparks effect"", whereby electrification in passenger rail systems leads to significant jumps in patronage / revenue"	What can be seen in the newly electrified lines?
Network effects are a large factor with electrification	What is a major factor whn it comes to electrification?
Additionally, there are issues of connections between different electrical services, particularly connecting intercity lines with sections electrified for commuter traffic, but also between commuter lines built to different standards	What is the other issue that comes to sight when using electrification system?
Central station electricity can often be generated with higher efficiency than a mobile engine/generator	Which of two can be more efficiently electricified?
Energy sources unsuitable for mobile power plants, such as nuclear power, renewable hydroelectricity, or wind power can be used	Can renewable source of electricity be used in mobile power plants?
In the former Soviet Union, electric traction eventually became somewhat more energy-efficient than diesel	What type of trains became more energy-efficient in the former Soviet Union?
Besides increased efficiency of power plants, there was an increase in efficiency of the railway utilization of this electricity with energy-intensity dropping from 218 to 124 kwh/10,000 gross tonne-km or a 43% drop	What caused the energy efficiency to go up?
There are 45 million Hispanophones who speak Spanish as a first or second language in the United States, as well as six million Spanish language students	How many people speak Spanish as a first or second language in the United States?
The Spanish language has been present in what is now the United States since the 16th and 17th centuries, with the arrival of Spanish colonization in North America that would later become the states of Florida, Texas, Colorado, New Mexico, Arizona, Nevada, Utah, and California	How old is the Spanish language in the United States?
Spanish was the language spoken by the first permanent European settlers in North America	What was the first language spoken by the permanent European settlers?
In 1821, after Mexico's War of Independence from Spain, Texas was part of the United Mexican States as the state of Coahuila y Tejas	Was Texas a part of Mexico?
After the Mexican War of Independence from Spain also, California, Nevada, Arizona, Utah, western Colorado and southwestern Wyoming became part of the Mexican territory of Alta California and most of New Mexico, western Texas, southern Colorado, southwestern Kansas, and Oklahoma panhandle were part of the territory of Santa Fe de Nuevo México	When did other states become part of Mexico?
Through the force of sheer numbers, the English-speaking American settlers entering the Southwest established their language, culture, and law as dominant, to the extent it fully displaced Spanish in the public sphere; this is why the United States never developed bilingualism as Canada did	Why isn't the southwest Spanish speaking?
It was completely unsuccessful, and retreated from that policy in 1948	Was English in Puerto Rico successful?
Of all major Hispanic groups, Puerto Ricans are the least likely to be proficient in Spanish, but millions of Puerto Rican Americans living in the U	Do they speak Spanish fluently?
Immigration to the United States of Spanish-speaking Cubans began because of Cuba's political instability upon achieving independence	Why did Cubans come to the United States?
Likewise the migration of Spanish-speaking Nicaraguans also began as a result of political instability during the end of the 1970s and the 1980s	What other Spanish Speaking people come to America?
The largest immigration wave occurred as a result of the Salvadoran Civil War in the 1980s, in which 20–30% of El Salvador's population emigrated	When did Salvadorans come to America?
As civil wars engulfed several Central American countries in the 1980s, hundreds of thousands of Salvadorans fled their country and came to the United States	Why did Central Americans flee to the U.S.?
Between the 18th and early 19th centuries, there were many European immigrants who went to Venezuela, only to later migrate to the United States along with their children and grandchildren who born and/or grew up in Venezuela speaking Spanish	Does Venezuela have immigrates from other countries?
In the 2000s, more Venezuelans opposing the economic and political policies of president Hugo Chávez migrated to the United States 	How did Chavez affect the Venezuelans?
Some states, such as New Mexico, provide bilingual legislated notices and official documents, in Spanish and English, and other commonly used languages	Is there such a thing as bilingual state?
The area of the former Gadsden Purchase contained a majority of Spanish-speakers until the 1940s, although the Tucson area had a higher ratio of anglophones ; the continuous arrival of Mexican settlers increases the number of Spanish-speakers	Has New Mexico had a majority of Spanish speaking natives.
New Mexico is commonly thought to have Spanish as an official language alongside English because of its wide usage and legal promotion of Spanish in the state; however, the state has no official language	Is New Mexico known for the Spanish language?
Because of its relative isolation from other Spanish-speaking areas over most of its 400-year existence, New Mexico Spanish, and in particular the Spanish of northern New Mexico and Colorado has retained many elements of 16th- and 17th-century Spanish and has developed its own vocabulary	Why is New Mexico always an after thought in American -Spanish speaking society?
In Texas, English is the state's de facto official language and is used in government	What is Texas official language?
Spanish is currently the most widely taught non-English language in American secondary schools and of higher education	What language, other than English, is spoken in the U.S.?
The State of the Union Addresses and other presidential speeches are translated to Spanish, following the precedent set by the Bill Clinton administration	What political speaches are delivered in English and Spanish?
Calvin Veltman undertook, for the National Center for Education Statistics and for the Hispanic Policy Development Project, the most complete study of English language adoption by Hispanophone immigrants	Are there studies on Hispanic-American language?
After the incorporation of these states to the United States in the first half of the 19th century, the Spanish language was later reinforced in the country by the acquisition of Puerto Rico in 1898	Which century did the US incorporate Spanish? 
Charleston is the oldest and second-largest city in the U	What is the oldest city in South Carolina?
Founded in 1670 as Charles Town in honor of King Charles II of England, Charleston adopted its present name in 1783	What year was Charleston founded?
North Charleston blocks any expansion up the peninsula, and Mount Pleasant occupies the land directly east of the Cooper River	Which city blocks Charleston for expanding up the peninsula? 
Summer is the wettest season; almost half of the annual rainfall occurs from June to September in the form of thundershowers	What season is the wettest in Charleston?
The highest temperature recorded within city limits was 104 °F , on June 2, 1985, and June 24, 1944, and the lowest was 7 °F on February 14, 1899, although at the airport, where official records are kept, the historical range is 105 °F on August 1, 1999 down to 6 °F on January 21, 1985	What is hottest temperature recorded with Charleston's city limits?
These cities combined with other incorporated and unincorporated areas along with the city of Charleston form the Charleston-North Charleston Urban Area with a population of 548,404 as of 2010	How many people lived in the Charleston=North Charleston Urban Area in 2010?
The traditional parish system persisted until the Reconstruction Era, when counties were imposed	What era brought counties to South Carolina?
The first of these founded Charles Town, in 1670	What year was Charles Town founded?
The community was established by several shiploads of settlers from Bermuda , under the leadership of governor William Sayle, on the west bank of the Ashley River, a few miles northwest of the present-day city center	Where did Charleston's original settlers come from?
"Because of the battles between English ""royalty"" and the Roman Catholic Church, practicing Catholics were not allowed to settle in South Carolina until after the American Revolution"	What religious group was not allowed to settle in South Carolina?
The early settlement was often subject to attack from sea and land, including periodic assaults from Spain and France , and pirates	Which country along with France contested England's claim to the Charleston region?
Today nothing commemorates that ugly fact but a simple bench, established by the author Toni Morrison using private funds	What author paid for the simple bench at Sullivan's Island?
African slaves brought knowledge of rice cultivation, which plantation owners cultivated and developed as a successful commodity crop by 1700	African slaves had great knowledge of the cultivation of what product?
Charles Towne was also the wealthiest and largest city south of Philadelphia, in part because of the lucrative slave trade	What lucrative trade contributed greatly to Charles Town's growth?
Trade alliances with the Cherokee and Creek nations insured a steady supply of deer hides	What other Native American nation supplied Charles Town with deer hides other than the Cherokee nation?
This group also helped establish the College of Charles Towne in 1770, the oldest college in South Carolina	What is the oldest college in South Carolina?
On June 28, 1776, General Sir Henry Clinton along with 2,000 men and a naval squadron tried to seize Charles Towne, hoping for a simultaneous Loyalist uprising in South Carolina	Which general tried to seize Charles Town during the American Revolution?
American General Benjamin Lincoln was trapped and surrendered his entire 5,400-man force after a long fight, and the Siege of Charles Towne was the greatest American defeat of the war	What was the greatest American defeat of the American Revolution?
Although the city lost the status of state capital to Columbia in 1786, Charleston became even more prosperous in the plantation-dominated economy of the post-Revolutionary years	What city became the state capital of South Carolina?
By 1860, 3,785 free people of color were in Charleston, nearly 18% of the city's black population, and 8% of the total population	How many free people of color lived in Charleston in 1860?
8	What percentage of Charleston's population were slave people of color?
When a massive slave revolt planned by Denmark Vesey, a free black, was revealed in May 1822, whites reacted with intense fear, as they were well aware of the violent retribution of slaves against whites during the Haitian Revolution	What was planned by Denmark Vesey?
In Charleston, the African American population increased as freedmen moved from rural areas to the major city: from 17,000 in 1860 to over 27,000 in 1880	How many African Americans lived in Charleston in 1860?
In 1865, the Avery Normal Institute was established by the American Missionary Association as the first free secondary school for Charleston's African American population	What association founded the Avery Normal Institute?
In 1875, blacks made up 57% of the city's population, and 73% of Charleston County	What percentage of Charleston's population was black in 1875?
After former Confederates were allowed to vote again, election campaigns from 1872 on were marked by violent intimidation of blacks and Republicans by white Democratic paramilitary groups, known as the Red Shirts	What were white Democratic paramilitary groups in Charleston known as?
On August 31, 1886, Charleston was nearly destroyed by an earthquake	What nearly destroyed Charleston in 1886?
The Democrat-dominated state legislature passed a new constitution in 1895 that disfranchised blacks, effectively excluding them entirely from the political process, a second-class status that was maintained for more than six decades in a state that was majority black until about 1930	Which party dominated South Carolina's state legislature?
On June 17, 2015, 21-year-old Dylann Roof entered the historic Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church during a Bible study and killed nine people	On what day were nine people killed in the Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church?
Spoleto Festival USA, held annually in late spring, has become one of the world's major performing arts festivals	What season is Spoleto Festival USA held?
Charleston's oldest community theater group, the Footlight Players, has provided theatrical productions since 1931	What is Charleston's oldest community theater group?
"Sylvester Primer of the College of Charleston wrote about aspects of the local dialect in his late 19th-century works: ""Charleston Provincialisms"" and ""The Huguenot Element in Charleston's Provincialisms"", published in a German journal"	"""Charleston's Provincialisms"" was published in what year?"
Charleston annually hosts Spoleto Festival USA founded by Gian Carlo Menotti, a 17-day art festival featuring over 100 performances by individual artists in a variety of disciplines	How many days does the Spoleto Festival USA run each year?
"""Ballin' the Jack"", which was a popular dance in the years before ""The Charleston"", was written by native Charlestonian Chris Smith"	"Who wrote the ""Charleston""?"
The Jenkins Orphanage was established in 1891 by the Rev	What year was the Jenkins Orphanage created?
The Jenkins Orphanage Band played in the inaugural parades of Presidents Theodore Roosevelt and William Taft and toured the USA and Europe	What other president did the Jenkins Orphanage play for other than Taft?
These firefighters operate out of 19 companies located throughout the city: 16 engine companies, two tower companies, and one ladder company	How many companies are there in the City of Charleston Fire Department?
The City of Charleston Police Department, with a total of 452 sworn officers, 137 civilians, and 27 reserve police officers, is South Carolina's largest police department	What is the largest police department of South Carolina?
The city has several major hospitals located in the downtown area: Medical University of South Carolina Medical Center , Ralph H	What is the state's first school of medicine?
The City of Charleston is served by the Charleston International Airport	What airport provides service to the City to Charleston?
This highway merges with King Street in the city's Neck area 	What area in Charleston is considered the 'industrial area'?
Bridge across the Cooper River opened on July 16, 2005, and was the second-longest cable-stayed bridge in the Americas at the time of its construction	What year did the Arthur Ravenel Jr. Bridge open?
Bishop England, Porter-Gaud School, and Ashley Hall are the city's oldest and most prominent private schools, and are a significant part of Charleston history, dating back some 150 years	Some of the oldest private schools in Charleston date back how long?
Public institutions of higher education in Charleston include the College of Charleston , The Citadel, The Military College of South Carolina, and the Medical University of South Carolina	What is the nation's 13th-oldest university?
Charleston has one official sister city, Spoleto, Umbria, Italy	What is the name of Charleston's sister city?
At the 1996 closure of the station's Polaris Missile Facility Atlantic , over 2,500 nuclear warheads and their UGM-27 Polaris, UGM-73 Poseidon, and UGM-96 Trident I delivery missiles were stored and maintained, guarded by a U	What year was the Polaris Missile Facility Atlantic station closed?
In 1832, South Carolina passed an ordinance of nullification, a procedure by which a state could, in effect, repeal a federal law; it was directed against the most recent tariff acts	What year did South Carolina pass a law allowing them to repeal Federal Law?
The slave trade also depended on the port of Charleston, where ships could be unloaded and the slaves bought and sold	What industry depended on the port of Charleston?
Men who had been free people of color before the war comprised 26% of those elected to state and federal office in South Carolina from 1868 to 1876	What percentage of those elected from 1868 to 1876 were Freemen?
Between 7 September 1940 and 21 May 1941, 16 British cities suffered aerial raids with at least 100 long tons of high explosives	What was the beginning date of the aerial raids on Great Britain?
From 7 September 1940, one year into the war, London was bombed by the Luftwaffe for 57 consecutive nights	How many nights did the Luftwaffe bomb London?
The Blitz was only authorised when the Luftwaffe had failed to meet preconditions for a 1940 launch of Operation Sea Lion, the provisionally planned German invasion of Britain	What was the name of the Luftwaffe plan to invade Britain?
In the 1920s and 1930s, air power theorists Giulio Douhet and Billy Mitchell espoused the idea that air forces could win wars by themselves, without a need for land and sea fighting	In the 1920's and 30's to theorist thought wars could be won by air forces what were their names?
Within the Luftwaffe, there was a more muted view of strategic bombing	Who believe air power alone would not be decisive?
Wever argued that the Luftwaffe General Staff should not be solely educated in tactical and operational matters	Who said the Luftwaffe General Staff should be taught grand strategy?
In 1936, Wever was killed in an air crash	How did Wever die?
Adolf Hitler failed to pay as much attention to bombing the enemy as he did to protection from enemy bombing, although he had promoted the development of a bomber force in the 1930s and understood that it was possible to use bombers for major strategic purposes	What year was the beginning of enemy bombing first promoted by Hitler?
Ultimately, Hitler was trapped within his own vision of bombing as a terror weapon, formed in the 1930s when he threatened smaller nations into accepting German rule rather than submit to air bombardment	How did Hitler threaten small nations into accepting German rule?
A major problem in the managing of the Luftwaffe was Hermann Göring	Who did Hitler have a conflict over running the air force?
"The deliberate separation of the Luftwaffe from the rest of the military structure encouraged the emergence of a major ""communications gap"" between Hitler and the Luftwaffe, which other factors helped to exacerbate"	What was the major cause of the separation between the Luftwaffe and the other military structure?
Within hours of the UK and France declaring war on Germany on 3 September 1939, the RAF bombed German warships along the German coast at Wilhelmshaven	Which two countries declared war on Germany on September 3 1939?
Although not specifically prepared to conduct independent strategic air operations against an opponent, the Luftwaffe was expected to do so over Britain	Which tactics were the Luftwaffe excepted to use against Britain? 
The Luftwaffe's poor intelligence meant that their aircraft were not always able to locate their targets, and thus attacks on factories and airfields failed to achieve the desired results	Why did the Luftwaffe fail to locate their targets?
The decision to change strategy is sometimes claimed as a major mistake by the Oberkommando der Luftwaffe 	What does OKL stand for?
With no sign of the RAF weakening, and Luftwaffe air fleets taking punishing losses, the OKL was keen for a change in strategy	The Luftwaffe air fleets were taking what kind of losses?
The main focus of the bombing operations was against the city of London	Which British city did the Luftwaffe focus its bombing on?
Although it had equipment capable of doing serious damage, the problem for the Luftwaffe was its unclear strategy and poor intelligence	Poor intelligence and what other problem made it difficult for the Luftwaffe to do extreme damage?
In an operational capacity, limitations in weapons technology and quick British reactions were making it more difficult to achieve strategic effect	Coupled with British quick reactions what cause operational capacity hard to achieve?
Based on experience with German strategic bombing during World War I against the United Kingdom, the British government estimated after the war that 50 casualties— with about one third killed— would result for every tonne of bombs dropped on London	How many casualties did the British government estimate for every ton of bombs dropped?
In addition to the dead and wounded, government leaders feared mass psychological trauma from aerial attack and a resulting collapse of civil society	What was the biggest fear aerial attacks would cause besides death and wounded?
4 million from London	The government planned to evacuate 1.4 million from which city?
Much civil-defence preparation in the form of shelters was left in the hands of local authorities, and many areas such as Birmingham, Coventry, Belfast and the East End of London did not have enough shelters	What civil-defense efforts were left to local authorities to handle?
The government did not build them for large populations before the war because of cost, time to build, and fears that their very safety would cause occupants to refuse to leave to return to work, or that anti-war sentiment would develop in large groups	What kind of sentiment did the government fear would developed in large group shelters? 
Although many civilians had used them as such during the First World War, the government in 1939 refused to allow the stations to be used as shelters so as not to interfere with commuter and troop travel, and the fears that occupants might refuse to leave	Why did the government refuse to allow the London Underground stations to be used as shelters?
Peak use of the Underground as shelter was 177,000 on 27 September 1940, and a November 1940 census of London found that about 4% of residents used the Tube and other large shelters; 9% in public surface shelters; and 27% in private home shelters, implying that the remaining 60% of the city likely stayed at home	What was the largest number to use Underground shelters in September 27, 1940?
Public demand caused the government in October 1940 to build new deep shelters:189–190 within the Underground to hold 80,000 people but were not completed until the period of heaviest bombing had passed	What year did the government start to build new deep shelters?
Although the intensity of the bombing was not as great as prewar expectations so an equal comparison is impossible, no psychiatric crisis occurred because of the Blitz even during the period of greatest bombing of September 1940	With the intense bomb what did not happen as great as prewar predictions expected?
Ingersoll added that, according to Anna Freud and Edward Glover, London civilians surprisingly did not suffer from widespread shell shock, unlike the soldiers in the Dunkirk evacuation	Anne Freud and Edward Glover said London civilians did not suffer from what?
The cheerful crowds visiting bomb sites were so large they interfered with rescue work, pub visits increased in number , and 13,000 attended cricket at Lord's	What drink was never rationed?
Many civilians who were unwilling or unable to join the military became members of the Home Guard, the Air Raid Precautions service , the Auxiliary Fire Service, and many other organisations	What is ARP?
The WVS was set up under the direction of Samuel Hoare, Home Secretary in 1938 specifically in the event of air raids	What group did Samuel Hoare set up in 1938?
In the inter-war years and after 1940, Hugh Dowding, Air Officer Commanding Fighter Command has received credit for the defence of British air space and the failure of the Luftwaffe to achieve air superiority	Who was the Air Officer Commanding Fighter Command after 1940?
Dowding accepted that as AOC, he was responsible for the day and night defence of Britain, and the blame, should he fail, would be laid at his door	Who was reluctant to act quickly when urgent changes need to be made?
"Dowding was summoned to an Air Ministry conference on 17 October 1940 to explain the poor state of night defences and the supposed ""failure"" of his daytime strategy"	Who was summoned to the Air Ministry conference on October 17, 1940?
Most people aged 35 or over remembered the threat and greeted the bombings with great trepidation	People over the age of 35 reacted to the bombings with what?
Most of the resources went into planning for daylight fighter defences	What did the RAF put most of their resources into?
British defensive strategy revolved around offensive action, what became known as the cult of the offensive	What did the British offence become know as?
Bomber crews already had some experience with these types of systems due to the deployment of the Lorenz beam, a commercial blind-landing aid which allowed aircraft to land at night or in bad weather	What did the Lorenz beam allow aircraft to do?
While Knickebein was used by German crews en masse, X-Gerät use was limited to specially trained pathfinder crews	While Knickebein was used my most German crews who used the X-Gerat system?
Y-Gerät was the most complex system of the three	Which system was the most complex of the three?
In June 1940, a German prisoner of war was overheard boasting that the British would never find the Knickebein, even though it was under their noses	In 1940 a German prisoner overheard boasting that the British would never find what system?
German beacons operated on the medium-frequency band and the signals involved a two-letter Morse identifier followed by a lengthy time-lapse which enabled the Luftwaffe crews to determine the signal's bearing	The German beacons used what frequency band?
It was to be some months before an effective night fighter force would be ready, and anti-aircraft defences only became adequate after the Blitz was over, so ruses were created to lure German bombers away from their targets	Anti-aircraft defenses became better after what?
The use of diversionary techniques such as fires had to be made carefully	Fake fires were used as what kind of technique?
Some 107,400 long tons of shipping was damaged in the Thames Estuary and 1,600 civilians were casualties	The bombing of the Thames Estuary cause how many civilian casualties?
Although the weather was poor, heavy raids took place that afternoon on the London suburbs and the airfield at Farnborough	What was the name of the airfield where heavy raids took place?
On 15 September the Luftwaffe made two large daylight attacks on London along the Thames Estuary, targeting the docks and rail communications in the city	On September 15 the Luftwaffe made daylight raids on what target in London?
While Göring was optimistic the Luftwaffe could prevail, Hitler was not	Who thought the Luftwaffe could win?
On 14 October, the heaviest night attack to date saw 380 German bombers from Luftflotte 3 hit London	On October 14 how many German bombers attacked?
According to German sources, 9,000 short tons of bombs were dropped in that month, of which about 10 percent of which was dropped in daylight	How much of the short tons of bombs were dropped during the day?
Luftwaffe policy at this point was primarily to continue progressive attacks on London, chiefly by night attack; second, to interfere with production in the vast industrial arms factories of the West Midlands, again chiefly by night attack; and third to disrupt plants and factories during the day by means of fighter-bombers	What was the Luftwaffe's second primary policy?
By mid-November 1940, when the Germans adopted a changed plan, more than 13,000 short tons of high explosive and nearly 1,000,000 incendiaries had fallen on London	By mid November of 1940 how many incendiaries were dropped on London?
"The American observer Ingersoll reported at this time that ""as to the accuracy of the bombing of military objectives, here I make no qualifications"	What was the name of the American observer?
Few anti-aircraft guns had fire-control systems, and the underpowered searchlights were usually ineffective against aircraft at altitudes above 12,000 ft 	British night air defenses were effective to what height?
London's defences were rapidly reorganised by General Pile, the Commander-in-Chief of Anti-Aircraft Command	Who reorganised London's defences?
Airborne Interception radar was unreliable	What was considered unreliable?
Whitehall's disquiet at the failures of the RAF led to the replacement of Dowding with Sholto Douglas on 25 November	Who replaced Dowding on November 25?
Nevertheless, it was radar that proved to be critical weapon in the night battles over Britain from this point onward	What was critical in the night battles over Britain?
In particular, the West Midlands were targeted	The Luftwaffe's change in strategy targeted what primarily?
Five nights later, Birmingham was hit by 369 bombers from KG 54, KG 26, and KG 55	How many bombers hit Birmingham?
Probably the most devastating strike occurred on the evening of 29 December, when German aircraft attacked the City of London itself with incendiary and high explosive bombs, causing a firestorm that has been called the Second Great Fire of London	On what day was London itself attacked?
Port cities were also attacked to try to disrupt trade and sea communications	Why were port cities targeted by the Luftwaffe?
Although official German air doctrine did target civilian morale, it did not espouse the attacking of civilians directly	What was the primary goal of the German air doctrine?
Special units, such as KGr 100, became the Beleuchtergruppe , which used incendiaries and high explosive to mark the target area	What was the group that used incendiaries and high explosives to mark targets?
These decisions, apparently taken at the Luftflotte or Fliegerkorps level ), meant attacks on individual targets were gradually replaced by what was, for all intents and purposes, an unrestricted area attack or Terrorangriff 	Decision changes at organizational levels led to what type of attacks?
Erich Raeder—commander-in-chief of the Kriegsmarine—had long argued the Luftwaffe should support the German submarine force in the Battle of the Atlantic by attacking shipping in the Atlantic Ocean and attacking British ports	What did Erich Raeder believe the Luftwaffe needed to do?
This led to Göring and Jeschonnek agreeing to Hitler's Directive 23, Directions for operations against the British War Economy, which was published on 6 February 1941 and gave aerial interdiction of British imports by sea top priority	What was Hitler's Directive 23?
Directive 23 was the only concession made by Göring to the Kriegsmarine over the strategic bombing strategy of the Luftwaffe against Britain	What was the concession Goring made with the strategic bombing against Britain?
First, the difficulty in estimating the impact of bombing upon war production was becoming apparent, and second, the conclusion British morale was unlikely to break led OKL to adopt the naval option	What was the first consideration for the OKL to support Directive 23?
A further line in the directive stressed the need to inflict the heaviest losses possible, but also to intensify the air war in order to create the impression an amphibious assault on Britain was planned for 1941	What was inflicting heavy losses and increasing the air war designed to do?
The Luftwaffe flew 4,000 sorties that month, including 12 major and three heavy attacks	How many sorties were flown in March 1941?
The attacks were focused against western ports in March	What was focused in March?
The diversion of heavier bombers to the Balkans meant that the crews and units left behind were asked to fly two or three sorties per night	How many sorties a night were crews asked to fly?
With the German occupation of Western Europe, the intensification of submarine and air attack on Britain's sea communications was feared by the British	What did the British fear most?
All but seven of its 12,000 houses were damaged	How many houses were spared damage in Glasgow?
In the north, substantial efforts were made against Newcastle-upon-Tyne and Sunderland, which were large ports on the English east coast	What were two large ports on the English east coast in the North?
The last major attack on London was on 10/11 May 1941, on which the Luftwaffe flew 571 sorties and dropped 800 tonnes of bombs	When was the last major attack London saw?
Moreover, the Blenheim struggled to reach the speed of the German bombers	How did the Bristol Blenheim F.1 compare to German aircraft speed?
The Boulton Paul Defiant, despite its poor performance during daylight engagements, was a much better night fighter	What performed better during night fighting?
The Beaufighter had a maximum speed of 320 mph , an operational ceiling of 26,000 ft and a climb rate of 2,500 ft per minute	What was the max speed of a Beaufighter?
By April and May 1941, the Luftwaffe was still getting through to their targets, taking no more than one- to two-percent losses on any given mission	What was the most losses the Luftwaffe suffered on any mission?
The Luftwaffe dropped around 45,000 short tons of bombs during the Blitz disrupting production and transport, reducing food supplies and shaking the British morale	The Luftwaffe used how many short tons of bombs during the Blitz?
More might have been achieved had the OKL exploited their enemy's weak spot, the vulnerability of British sea communications	How could have more been achieved in the air offensive?
The relieved British began to assess the impact of the Blitz in August 1941, and the RAF Air Staff used the German experience to improve Bomber Command's offensives	What helped increase the Bomber Command's offensives?
Morale was not mentioned until the ninth wartime directive on 21 September 1940	When was morale finally mentioned?
In the Myth of the Blitz, Calder exposed some of the counter-evidence of anti-social and divisive behaviours	What did Calder try to expose in his book?
Many Londoners, in particular, took to using the Underground railway system, without authority, for shelter and sleeping through the night there until the following morning	What did Londoners use for bomb-shelters?
The brief success of the Communists also fed into the hands of the British Union of Fascists 	The success of the Communists helped what political group?
Over a quarter of London's population had left the city by November 1940	How much of London's population left?
In recent years a large number of wartime recordings relating to the Blitz have been made available on audiobooks such as The Blitz, The Home Front and British War Broadcasting	What are the audiobooks with wartime recordings?
The Endangered Species Act of 1973 (ESA; 16 U	In what year did the Endangered Species Act become law?
The species' historical range extended from central Canada South to Mexico, and from Utah to the Atlantic coast	What was the historical range of the whooping crane?
The Lacey Act of 1900 was the first federal law that regulated commercial animal markets	What was the first federal law that regulated wildlife commerce?
It authorized the Secretary of the Interior to list endangered domestic fish and wildlife and allowed the United States Fish and Wildlife Service to spend up to $15 million per year to buy habitats for listed species	What did the Endangered Species Act authorize the Secretary of the Interior to do?
"This first list is referred to as the ""Class of '67"" in The Endangered Species Act at Thirty, Volume 1, which concludes that habitat destruction, the biggest threat to those 78 species, is still the same threat to the currently listed species"	What is the nickname given to the first listing of endangered species?
1	What volume was published in 1969?
"91-135), passed in December, 1969, amended the original law to provide additional protection to species in danger of ""worldwide extinction"" by prohibiting their importation and subsequent sale in the United States"	When was the Endangered Species Conservation Act passed?
It was written by a team of lawyers and scientists, including the first appointed head of the Council on Environmental Quality ,an outgrowth of NEPA Dr	The team leader was the first appointed head of what organization?
A species can be listed in two ways	How many different ways can a species be added to the endangered list?
""" The 1982 amendment to the ESA added the word ""solely"" to prevent any consideration other than the biological status of the species"	What word was added to the Endangered Species Act in 1982?
Public notice is given through legal notices in newspapers, and communicated to state and county agencies within the species' area	How is public notice given regarding a listing?
The provision of the law in Section 4 that establishes critical habitat is a regulatory link between habitat protection and recovery goals, requiring the identification and protection of all lands, water and air necessary to recover endangered species	What section of the Endangered Species Act establishes critical habitat regulations?
"All federal agencies are prohibited from authorizing, funding or carrying out actions that ""destroy or adversely modify"" critical habitats )"	What does the Endangered Species Act detail about government action regarding critical habitats?
The ESA requires that critical habitat be designated at the time of or within one year of a species being placed on the endangered list	What is the time limit for designating a species critical habitat after the species has been added to the endangered list?
Fish and Wildlife Service and National Marine Fisheries Service are required to create an Endangered Species Recovery Plan outlining the goals, tasks required, likely costs, and estimated timeline to recover endangered species (i	What four topics are required in an Endangered Species Recovery Plan?
The question to be answered is whether a listed species will be harmed by the action and, if so, how the harm can be minimized	What is the primary consideration for determining if projects may be carried out in areas with endangered species?
Long before the exemption is considered by the Endangered Species Committee, the Forest Service, and either the FWS or the NMFS will have consulted on the biological implications of the timber harvest	Who reviews exemption considerations before the Endangered Species committee?
There have been six instances as of 2009 in which the exemption process was initiated	How many times has the exemption process been used, as of 2009?
More than half of habitat for listed species is on non-federal property, owned by citizens, states, local governments, tribal governments and private organizations	Who owns the majority of critical habitat?
"The person or organization submits a HCP and if approved by the agency , will be issued an Incidental Take Permit which allows a certain number of ""takes"" of the listed species"	An approved HCP results in what being issued for the species?
The US Congress was urged to create the exemption by proponents of a conservation plan on San Bruno Mountain, California that was drafted in the early 1980s and is the first HCP in the nation	What location held the first HCP?
"Hawaii Department of Land and Natural Resources both contributed to making Habitat Conservation Plans/ Incidental Take Permits ""a major force for wildlife conservation and a major headache to the development community"", wrote Robert D"	What did Thornton compare the scientific and legal advances to, from the viewpoint of the development community?
"The ""No Surprises"" rule is meant to protect the landowner if ""unforeseen circumstances"" occur which make the landowner's efforts to prevent or mitigate harm to the species fall short"	What is the name of the rule that protects the landowner if their conservation efforts fall short?
"The ""Safe Harbor"" agreement is a voluntary agreement between the private landowner and FWS"	"What two groups are bound by a ""Safe Harbor"" agreement?"
"The Candidate Conservation Agreement is closely related to the ""Safe Harbor"" agreement, the main difference is that the Candidate Conservation Agreements With Assurances are meant to protect unlisted species by providing incentives to private landowners and land managing agencies to restore, enhance or maintain habitat of unlisted species which are declining and have the potential to become threatened or endangered if critical habitat is not protected"	How does a CCA impact unlisted species?
Two examples of animal species recently delisted are: the Virginia northern flying squirrel on August, 2008, which had been listed since 1985, and the gray wolf 	What animal species was delisted in August 2008?
As of September 2012, fifty-six species have been delisted; twenty-eight due to recovery, ten due to extinction , ten due to changes in taxonomic classification practices, six due to discovery of new populations, one due to an error in the listing rule, and one due to an amendment to the Endangered Species Act specifically requiring the species delisting	As of September 2012, how many species had been delisted due to recovery?
Opponents of the Endangered Species Act argue that with over 2,000 endangered species listed, and only 28 delisted due to recovery, the success rate of 1% over nearly three decades proves that there needs to be serious reform in their methods to actually help the endangered animals and plants	How many species are currently listed?
According to research published in 1999 by Alan Green and the Center for Public Integrity , loopholes in the ESA are commonly exploited in the exotic pet trade	What is one particular industry that exploits Endangered Species Act loopholes?
Green and the CPI further noted another exploit of the ESA in their discussion of the critically endangered cotton-top tamarin 	The Center for Public Integrity found that 151 of what primate were moved from the New England Primate Research Center into exotic pet trade?
Section 6 of the Endangered Species Act provided funding for development of programs for management of threatened and endangered species by state wildlife agencies	Section 6 of the Endangered Species Act provided funding for what purpose?
A reward will be paid to any person who furnishes information which leads to an arrest, conviction, or revocation of a license, so long as they are not a local, state, or federal employee in the performance of official duties	Is the public given incentive to report Endangered Species Act violations?
"The word stems from the Latin adjective vacuus for ""vacant"" or ""void"""	The word Vacuum stems from what Latin adjective?
For example, a typical vacuum cleaner produces enough suction to reduce air pressure by around 20%	A typical vacuum cleaner produces enough suction to do what to air pressure?
Aristotle believed that no void could occur naturally, because the denser surrounding material continuum would immediately fill any incipient rarity that might give rise to a void	What did Aristotle believe about a void?
Although Lucretius argued for the existence of vacuum in the first century BC and Hero of Alexandria tried unsuccessfully to create an artificial vacuum in the first century AD, it was European scholars such as Roger Bacon, Blasius of Parma and Walter Burley in the 13th and 14th century who focused considerable attention on these issues	In what century did believes start to move away from Aristotle's idea regarding a void?
Even if the victim does not hold his or her breath, venting through the windpipe may be too slow to prevent the fatal rupture of the delicate alveoli of the lungs	What does Rapid decompression do to the lungs?
Although Descartes agreed with the contemporary position, that a vacuum does not occur in nature, the success of his namesake coordinate system and more implicitly, the spatial–corporeal component of his metaphysics would come to define the philosophically modern notion of empty space as a quantified extension of volume	What did Descartes believe about vacuums in nature?
In 1930, Paul Dirac proposed a model of the vacuum as an infinite sea of particles possessing negative energy, called the Dirac sea	An infinite sea of particles with negative energy was a model propesed by whom?
"The black hole is an elegant example of a region completely ""filled"" with vacuum, but still showing a strong curvature"	what is a perfect example of a filled vacuum showing a curvature?
Most artificial satellites operate in this region called low Earth orbit and must fire their engines every few days to maintain orbit	Where do most satellites operate?
"According to Ahmad Dallal, Abū Rayhān al-Bīrūnī also states that ""there is no observable evidence that rules out the possibility of vacuum"""	who stated that there was no evidence to rule out a vacuum?
Speculation that even God could not create a vacuum if he wanted to was shut down by the 1277 Paris condemnations of Bishop Etienne Tempier, which required there to be no restrictions on the powers of God, which led to the conclusion that God could create a vacuum if he so wished	Who required no restrictions regarding God's power?
Thereafter, research into the partial vacuum lapsed until 1850 when August Toepler invented the Toepler Pump and Heinrich Geissler invented the mercury displacement pump in 1855, achieving a partial vacuum of about 10 Pa (0	What year was the Toepler Pump invented?
While outer space provides the most rarefied example of a naturally occurring partial vacuum, the heavens were originally thought to be seamlessly filled by a rigid indestructible material called aether	What was originally believed the heavens were filled with?
The quality of a vacuum is indicated by the amount of matter remaining in the system, so that a high quality vacuum is one with very little matter left in it	What indicated the quality of a vacuum?
"""Below atmospheric"" means that the absolute pressure is equal to the current atmospheric pressure"	Absolute pressure being equal to current atmospheric pressure means what?
""""	During what years was mercury commonly in use?
Any fluid can be used, but mercury is preferred for its high density and low vapour pressure	Why is mercury the better option for liquid used in a Hydrostatic gauge?
Thermal conductivity gauges rely on the fact that the ability of a gas to conduct heat decreases with pressure	The fact that gases ability to conduct heat decreases with pressure is used by what form of measurement?
The current depends on the number of ions, which depends on the pressure in the gauge	What affects the number of ions in a gauge?
Cold or oxygen-rich atmospheres can sustain life at pressures much lower than atmospheric, as long as the density of oxygen is similar to that of standard sea-level atmosphere	density of oxygen like that of sea-level atmosphere is needed to do what?
Humans and animals exposed to vacuum will lose consciousness after a few seconds and die of hypoxia within minutes, but the symptoms are not nearly as graphic as commonly depicted in media and popular culture	When will a person or animal lose consciousness when exposed to a vacuum?
Some oils and greases will boil off in extreme vacuums	What can boil away in extreme vaccum exposure?
In quantum mechanics and quantum field theory, the vacuum is defined as the state with the lowest possible energy 	The state with the lowest possible energy in quantum mechanics defines what ?
In QED vacuum, the electric and magnetic fields have zero average values, but their variances are not zero	When are electric and magnetic fields with zero average values, but their variances are not at zero?
The thermosphere in this range has large gradients of pressure, temperature and composition, and varies greatly due to space weather	`Why does thermosphere past the Karman line vary so greatly?
Its first widespread use was in the incandescent light bulb to protect the filament from chemical degradation	What was the object to use first in widespread manner process of vacuum?
The best-known application is the vacuum servo, used to provide power assistance for the brakes	What provides power assistance for auto brakes?
Evaporation and sublimation into a vacuum is called outgassing	what is evaporation and sublimation in a vacuum?
To continue evacuating a chamber indefinitely without requiring infinite growth, a compartment of the vacuum can be repeatedly closed off, exhausted, and expanded again	Repeatedly closing off a compartment of a vacuum allows what?
Entrapment pumps can capture gases in a solid or absorbed state, often with no moving parts, no seals and no vibration	What pump can capture gases in a solid or absorbed state?
Multiple pumps may be connected in series, called stages, to achieve higher vacuums	When multiple pumps are connected in series to produce higher vacuum it is called what?
Fluids cannot generally be pulled, so a vacuum cannot be created by suction	What can be measured in the atmosphere?
The Han dynasty was the second imperial dynasty of China, preceded by the Qin dynasty and succeeded by the Three Kingdoms period 	What period followed the Han dynasty?
This policy endured until the fall of the Qing dynasty in AD 1911	When did the Qing dynasty fall?
The coinage issued by the central government mint in 119 BC remained the standard coinage of China until the Tang dynasty 	In what year did the central government issue coins?
The Xiongnu, a nomadic steppe confederation, defeated the Han in 200 BC and forced the Han to submit as a de facto inferior partner, but continued their raids on the Han borders	Which confederation defeated the Han in 200 BC?
Imperial authority was also seriously challenged by large Daoist religious societies which instigated the Yellow Turban Rebellion and the Five Pecks of Rice Rebellion	Which religious societies instigated the Yellow Turban Rebellion?
The Qin unified the Chinese Warring States by conquest, but their empire became unstable after the death of the first emperor Qin Shi Huangdi	With what action did the Qin bring together the Chinese Warring States?
At the beginning of the Western Han dynasty, thirteen centrally controlled commanderies—including the capital region—existed in the western third of the empire, while the eastern two-thirds were divided into ten semi-autonomous kingdoms	How many commanderies were in the western third of the empire?
To the north of China proper, the nomadic Xiongnu chieftain Modu Chanyu (r	Who was the chieftain of the Xiongnu?
141–87 BC) in 135 BC, the majority consensus of the ministers was to retain the heqin agreement	The heqin agreement was reaffirmed by a court conference in what year?
The majority of people on the frontier were soldiers	Who made up a majority of the people on the frontier?
These connections marked the beginning of the Silk Road trade network that extended to the Roman Empire, bringing Han items like silk to Rome and Roman goods such as glasswares to China	What type of Roman item was traded on the Silk Road network?
From roughly 115 to 60 BC, Han forces fought the Xiongnu over control of the oasis city-states in the Tarim Basin	Which group did Han forces fight in the Tarm Basin?
He created central government monopolies administered largely by former merchants	Who made up the bulk of the administrators of the new government monopolies?
Wang Mang initiated a series of major reforms that were ultimately unsuccessful	Who tried to outlaw slavery?
From the reign of Guangwu the capital was moved eastward to Luoyang	Where did the capital move to after the reign of Guangwu?
The Eastern Han, also known as the Later Han, formally began on 5 August 25, when Liu Xiu became Emperor Guangwu of Han	On what date did the Eastern Han dynasty begin?
During the turbulent reign of Wang Mang, Han lost control over the Tarim Basin, which was conquered by the Northern Xiongnu in AD 63 and used as a base to invade Han's Hexi Corridor in Gansu	Which Basin did the Han lose authority of?
When a request by Kushan ruler Vima Kadphises (r	Which ruler requested a marriage alliance with the Han in AD 90?
In addition to tributary relations with the Kushans, the Han Empire received gifts from the Parthian Empire, from a king in modern Burma, from a ruler in Japan, and initiated an unsuccessful mission to Daqin in AD 97 with Gan Ying as emissary	Which member of the Han Empire was sent to Daqin in AD 97?
88–105 AD) had Empress Dowager Dou (d	Who was prevented from leaving their house?
When Empress Dowager Deng died, Emperor An (r	Who had forced a large number of Empress Dowager Deng's clan members to kill themselves?
Palace eunuchs imprisoned the official Li Ying and his associates from the Imperial University on a dubious charge of treason	On what charge was Li Ying jailed for?
168 AD) attempted a coup d'état against the eunuchs Hou Lan (d	Who arrested Chen Fan in a failed plot?
The Partisan Prohibitions were repealed during the Yellow Turban Rebellion and Five Pecks of Rice Rebellion in 184 AD, largely because the court did not want to continue to alienate a significant portion of the gentry class who might otherwise join the rebellions	In what year did the Partisan Prohibitions end?
General-in-Chief He Jin (d	Who was assassinated on September 22, 189 AD?
After Dong Zhuo demoted Emperor Shao and promoted his brother Liu Xie as Emperor Xian, Yuan Shao led a coalition of former officials and officers against Dong, who burned Luoyang to the ground and resettled the court at Chang'an in May 191 AD	How was Luoyang destroyed?
After Cao's defeat at the naval Battle of Red Cliffs in 208 AD, China was divided into three spheres of influence, with Cao Cao dominating the north, Sun Quan dominating the south, and Liu Bei dominating the west	Who was defeated at the Battle of Red Cliffs in 208 AD?
When the government became noticeably corrupt in mid-to-late Eastern Han, many gentrymen even considered the cultivation of morally grounded personal relationships more important than serving in public office	During what period was it obvious that corruption was widespread in the government?
The farmer, or specifically the small landowner-cultivator, was ranked just below scholars and officials in the social hierarchy	Who were considered to be below the social rank that scholars held?
The Han-era family was patrilineal and typically had four to five nuclear family members living in one household	How many family members would commonly live in a single household during the Han era?
Unlike the practice in later dynasties, the father usually sent his adult married sons away with their portions of the family fortune	Which family member commonly sent an adult married offspring away with their portion of the families fortune?
Women were expected to obey the will of their father, then their husband, and then their adult son in old age	Which gender was exempt from performing the yearly corvee labor duties?
The early Western Han court simultaneously accepted the philosophical teachings of Legalism, Huang-Lao Daoism, and Confucianism in making state decisions and shaping government policy	What philosophy was given exclusivity in the court during the rule of Emperor Wu?
Biographies on important figures were written by various gentrymen	Who had produced biographies of individuals of significant importance?
Early Han punishments of torturous mutilation were borrowed from Qin law	What type of torture was acquired from Qin law?
The most common staple crops consumed during Han were wheat, barley, foxtail millet, proso millet, rice, and beans	What type of crop was rice considered to be during this period?
These tombs were commonly adorned with uniquely decorated hollow clay tiles that function also as a doorjamb to the tomb	What type of decoration was often seen in tombs?
In addition to his many other roles, the emperor acted as the highest priest in the land who made sacrifices to Heaven, the main deities known as the Five Powers, and the spirits of mountains and rivers	Who made sacrifices to the main deities in this period?
Han-era Daoists assembled into small groups of hermits who attempted to achieve immortality through breathing exercises, sexual techniques and use of medical elixirs	What was the purpose of breathing exercises to a Daoist?
Buddhism first entered China during the Eastern Han and was first mentioned in 65 AD	During was era did Buddhism first appear in the region?
In Han government, the emperor was the supreme judge and lawgiver, the commander-in-chief of the armed forces and sole designator of official nominees appointed to the top posts in central and local administrations; those who earned a 600-dan salary-rank or higher	Who was responsible for nominations of local administrators in the government?
The Minister Coachman was responsible for the maintenance of imperial stables, horses, carriages and coach-houses for the emperor and his palace attendants, as well as the supply of horses for the armed forces	Which individual had a duty to maintain the imperial stables?
A commandery consisted of a group of counties, and was headed by an Administrator	What individual was typically in charge of a commandery?
At the beginning of the Han dynasty, every male commoner aged twenty-three was liable for conscription into the military	What gender was expected to be conscripted into the military?
During the Eastern Han, conscription could be avoided if one paid a commutable tax	How could conscription into military service be avoided?
The Han dynasty inherited the ban liang coin type from the Qin	Where did the Han dynasty receive their coin type from?
Emperor Wu introduced another in 120 BC, but a year later he abandoned the ban liangs entirely in favor of the wuzhu coin, weighing 3	Who introduced new coinage in the year of 120 BC?
The small landowner-cultivators formed the majority of the Han tax base; this revenue was threatened during the latter half of Eastern Han when many peasants fell into debt and were forced to work as farming tenants for wealthy landlords	Which group made up the bulk of the Han tax base?
To eliminate the influence of such private entrepreneurs, Emperor Wu nationalized the salt and iron industries in 117 BC and allowed many of the former industrialists to become officials administering the monopolies	In which year did Emperor Wu monopolize several industries?
Liquor was another profitable private industry nationalized by the central government in 98 BC	What industry was monopolized by the government in 98 BC?
Evidence suggests that blast furnaces, that convert raw iron ore into pig iron, which can be remelted in a cupola furnace to produce cast iron by means of a cold blast and hot blast, were operational in China by the late Spring and Autumn period 	What type of furnace was functional in China in 722 BC?
The three-legged iron seed drill, invented by the 2nd century BC, enabled farmers to carefully plant crops in rows instead of casting seeds out by hand	What was an invention that allowed farmers to place their crops into rows?
To protect crops from wind and drought, the Grain Intendant Zhao Guo created the alternating fields system during Emperor Wu's reign	What helped insure the safety of crops from wind?
Timber was the chief building material during the Han dynasty; it was used to build palace halls, multi-story residential towers and halls and single-story houses	What building material was used primarily during the Han dynasty?
Monumental stone pillar-gates, twenty-nine of which survive from the Han period, formed entrances of walled enclosures at shrine and tomb sites	How many stone pillar-gates survive from the Han era?
Evidence of Han-era mechanical engineering comes largely from the choice observational writings of sometimes disinterested Confucian scholars	What type of scholars have provided proof that mechanical engineering was prominent during the Han period?
Modern archaeology has led to the discovery of Han artwork portraying inventions which were otherwise absent in Han literary sources	During which period was the odometer cart first created?
Waterwheels were also used to power chain pumps that lifted water to raised irrigation ditches	What was used to power chain pumps to raise water to irrigation ditches?
Using a water clock, waterwheel and a series of gears, the Court Astronomer Zhang Heng was able to mechanically rotate his metal-ringed armillary sphere	Who was responsible for the invention of the seismometer?
Three Han mathematical treatises still exist	What type of treatise is the Book on Numbers and Computation considered to be?
Negative numbers first appeared in the Nine Chapters on the Mathematical Art as black counting rods, where positive numbers were represented by red counting rods	In what treatise did negative numbers first appear?
Han-era astronomers adopted a geocentric model of the universe, theorizing that it was shaped like a sphere surrounding the earth in the center	In what era was a geocentric view of the universe adopted?
Some of the earliest Han maps discovered were ink-penned silk maps found amongst the Mawangdui Silk Texts in a 2nd-century-BC tomb	What textile were some of the early Han maps made from?
The junk design was developed and realized during Han	What type of boat design was first invented during the Han era?
Han-era medical physicians believed that the human body was subject to the same forces of nature that governed the greater universe, namely the cosmological cycles of yin and yang and the five phases	Who believed that the same forces that controlled the universe also controlled the human body?
Muslims believe the Quran was verbally revealed by God to Muhammad through the angel Gabriel , gradually over a period of approximately 23 years, beginning on 22 December 609 CE, when Muhammad was 40, and concluding in 632, the year of his death	Which angel is believed to have communicated the Quran to Muhammad?
According to the traditional narrative, several companions of Muhammad served as scribes and were responsible for writing down the revelations	Who first recorded Muhammad revelations?
During prayers, the Quran is recited only in Arabic	In which language is the Quran spoken during prayer?
"It is a verbal noun of the Arabic verb qaraʼa , meaning ""he read"" or ""he recited"""	"From which Arabic verb might ""Quran"" be derived?"
Such terms include kitāb ; āyah ; and sūrah 	"Which term used in the Quran to indicate itself means ""book""?"
"The Quran describes itself as ""the discernment"" , ""the mother book"" , ""the guide"" , ""the wisdom"" , ""the remembrance"" and ""the revelation"" "	"Which term meaning ""the mother book"" does the Quran apply to itself?"
Islamic tradition relates that Muhammad received his first revelation in the Cave of Hira during one of his isolated retreats to the mountains	In which mountain cave did Mohammad experience his first revelation?
"The Quran describes Muhammad as ""ummi"", which is traditionally interpreted as ""illiterate,"" but the meaning is rather more complex"	"What is the most common interpretation of the word ""ummi"" that the Quran applies to Muhammad?"
Based on earlier transmitted reports, in the year 632, after the demise of Muhammad a number of his companions who knew the Quran by heart were killed in a battle by Musaylimah, the first caliph Abu Bakr (d	Which caliph decided to preserve the Quran as a single book after some of Muhammad's companions were killed in battle?
The Sana'a manuscripts contain palimpsests, a manuscript page from which the text has been washed off to make the parchment reusable again—a practice which was common in ancient times due to scarcity of writing material	What is the term for recycled parchments used in ancient manuscripts?
In 2015, fragments of a very early Quran, dating back to 1370 years ago, were discovered in the library of the University of Birmingham, England	How many years old were the Quran fragments discovered in Birmingham in 2015?
Based on tradition and a literal interpretation of Quran 56:79 , some Muslims believe that they must perform a ritual cleansing with water before touching a copy of the Quran, although this view is not universal	Which section of the Quran inspires some Muslims to ritually wash themselves before touching their copy?
Inimitability of the Quran is the belief that no human speech can match the Quran in its content and form	What term indicates that the contents of the Quran cannot be reproduced in speech?
The Quran consists of 114 chapters of varying lengths, each known as a sura	What is a chapter of the Quran called?
The 30 juz' can be used to read through the entire Quran in a month	What division of the Quran is used for a month-long reading?
Verses pertaining to natural phenomena have been interpreted by Muslims as an indication of the authenticity of the Quranic message	Quranic verses concerning which phenomena are thought by Muslims to authenticate its contents?
It is estimated that approximately one-third of the Quran is eschatological, dealing with the afterlife in the next world and with the day of judgment at the end of time	What fraction of the Quran deals with eschatology?
According to the Quran, God communicated with man and made his will known through signs and revelations	In what form does the Quran say God sends his messages to people?
"Belief is a fundamental aspect of morality in the Quran, and scholars have tried to determine the semantic contents of ""belief"" and ""believer"" in the Quran"	What mental state is the foundation of morality as described by the Quran?
"The astrophysicist Nidhal Guessoum while being highly critical of pseudo-scientific claims made about the Quran, has highlighted the encouragement for sciences that the Quran provides by developing ""the concept of knowledge"	Which astrophysicist has written about the ways the Quran encourages scientific thinking?
It's generally accepted that there are around 750 verses in the Quran dealing with natural phenomenon	Nature and its phenomena are mentioned in approximately how many of the Quran's verses?
"The physicist Abdus Salam, in his Nobel Prize banquet address, quoted a well known verse from the Quran and then stated: ""This in effect is the faith of all physicists: the deeper we seek, the more is our wonder excited, the more is the dazzlement of our gaze"""	Which physicist quoted the Quran in his address after receiving the Nobel Prize?
"The language of the Quran has been described as ""rhymed prose"" as it partakes of both poetry and prose; however, this description runs the risk of failing to convey the rhythmic quality of Quranic language, which is more poetic in some parts and more prose-like in others"	What description of the writing in the Quran highlights its poetic aspect?
The textual arrangement is sometimes considered to exhibit lack of continuity, absence of any chronological or thematic order and repetitiousness	What is lacking in the arrangement of the Quranic text?
"Self-referentiality is evident in those passages where the Quran refers to itself as revelation , remembrance , news , criterion in a self-designating manner (explicitly asserting its Divinity, ""And this is a blessed Remembrance that We have sent down; so are you now denying it"	What metatextual character does Stefan Wild focus on in his discussion of the Quran?
Tafsir is one of the earliest academic activities of Muslims	What is the name of the activity of explaining what Quranic verses mean?
Because the Quran is spoken in classical Arabic, many of the later converts to Islam did not always understand the Quranic Arabic, they did not catch allusions that were clear to early Muslims fluent in Arabic and they were concerned with reconciling apparent conflict of themes in the Quran	In which language is the Quran recited?
Esoteric or Sufi interpretation attempts to unveil the inner meanings of the Quran	What is another term for Sufi Quranic interpretation?
From the Sufi point of view, God is the always the beloved and the wayfarer's longing and suffering lead to realization of the truths	Beloved is a term for God used by which style of Quranic interpretation?
One of the notable authors of esoteric interpretation prior to the 12th century is Sulami (d	Who was an important esoteric interpreter of the Quran in the 11th century?
Commentaries dealing with the zahir of the text are called tafsir, and hermeneutic and esoteric commentaries dealing with the batin are called ta'wil , which involves taking the text back to its beginning	What is the Arabic term for the surface-level aspects of a text?
The first fully attested complete translations of the Quran were done between the 10th and 12th centuries in Persian	In which language was the Quran first translated?
Robert of Ketton's 1143 translation of the Quran for Peter the Venerable, Lex Mahumet pseudoprophete, was the first into a Western language 	In which year was the Quran first translated into a Western language?
The proper recitation of the Quran is the subject of a separate discipline named tajwid which determines in detail how the Quran should be recited, how each individual syllable is to be pronounced, the need to pay attention to the places where there should be a pause, to elisions, where the pronunciation should be long or short, where letters should be sounded together and where they should be kept separate, etc	What discipline concerns the way the Quran is correctly recited?
Vocalization markers indicating specific vowel sounds were introduced into the Arabic language by the end of the 9th century	The absence of which language feature made early Quranic recitation more diverse?
Before printing was widely adopted in the 19th century, the Quran was transmitted in manuscripts made by calligraphers and copyists	Who created Quranic manuscripts before the 19th century?
The system of vocalization, as we know it today, seems to have been introduced towards the end of the ninth century	In which century were vocalization marking added to the Quran?
Adam, Enoch, Noah, Eber, Shelah, Abraham, Lot, Ishmael, Isaac, Jacob, Joseph, Job, Jethro, David, Solomon, Elijah, Elisha, Jonah, Aaron, Moses, Zechariah, John the Baptist and Jesus are mentioned in the Quran as prophets of God 	Which Biblical character is the most often mentioned person in the Quran?
According to Tabatabaei, there are acceptable and unacceptable esoteric interpretations	What are the two type of ta'wil?
Several sources indicate that during Muhammad's lifetime a large number of his companions had memorized the revelations	Who had begun memorizing Muhammad's revelations in his lifetime?
According to Welch, these seizures would have been seen by those around him as convincing evidence for the superhuman origin of Muhammad's inspirations	What physical symptom accompanied Muhammad's revelations?
There is a spiritual reality—which is the main objective of ordaining a law, or the basic aim in describing a divine attribute—and then there is an actual significance that a Quranic story refers to	What can interpretation find that lies the behind the apparent events referred to in a Quranic story?
According to Shia beliefs, those who are firmly rooted in knowledge like Muhammad and the imams know the secrets of the Quran	Who do Shia Muslims believe can approach Quranic truths besides God and Muhammad?
From 1989 through 1996, the total area of the US was listed as 9,372,610 km2 	During the period from 1989 - 1996, what was the total are of the US in miles?
By total area , the United States is either slightly larger or smaller than the People's Republic of China, making it the world's third or fourth largest country	Compared to other countries, how large is the US?
The United States shares land borders with Canada and Mexico , and a territorial water border with Russia in the northwest, and two territorial water borders in the southeast between Florida and Cuba, and Florida and the Bahamas	Who does the US share water borders with in the northwest?
The capital city, Washington, District of Columbia, is a federal district located on land donated by the state of Maryland	What is the capital city of the US?
The five Great Lakes are located in the north-central portion of the country, four of them forming part of the border with Canada, only Lake Michigan situated entirely within United States	How many Great Lakes form a border with Canada?
The Great Plains lie west of the Mississippi River and east of the Rocky Mountains	What area is located in between the Mississippi River and the Rocky Mountains?
, entering from Canada and stretching nearly to Mexico	Which northern country do the Rocky Mountains begin at?
West of the Rocky Mountains lies the Intermontane Plateaus , a large, arid desert lying between the Rockies and the Cascades and Sierra Nevada ranges	What is the name of the plateau that lies west of the Rocky Mountains?
The Intermontane Plateaus come to an end at the Cascade Range and the Sierra Nevada	What is the name of the range where the Intermontane plateaus end?
These areas contain some spectacular scenery as well, as evidenced by such national parks as Yosemite and Mount Rainier	What are two national parks located in the mountainous regions?
The Appalachian Highland owes its oblique northeast-southwest trend to crustal deformations which in very early geological time gave a beginning to what later came to be the Appalachian mountain system	Why does the Appalachian Highland have the terrain it does?
The east coast Appalachian system, originally forest covered, is relatively low and narrow and is bordered on the southeast and south by an important coastal plain	What originally covered the east coast of the Appalachians?
The Laurentian Highlands, the Interior Plains and the Interior Highlands lie between the two coasts, stretching from the Gulf of Mexico northward, far beyond the national boundary, to the Arctic Ocean	What is one of the two major highlands that stretch from the gulf of mexico to the Arctic ocean?
The climate is temperate in most areas, subtropical in the Southern United States, tropical in Hawaii and southern Florida, polar in Alaska, semiarid in the Great Plains west of the 100th meridian, Mediterranean in coastal California and arid in the Great Basin	What is the climate like in the Southern United States?
The Great Basin and Columbia Plateau are arid or semiarid regions that lie in the rain shadow of the Cascades and Sierra Nevada	Which areas have arid regions?
Much of California consists of a Mediterranean climate, with sometimes excessive rainfall from October–April and nearly no rain the rest of the year	What is the most prevalent type of climate nCalifornia?
On average, the mountains of the western states receive the highest levels of snowfall on Earth	Which mountainous region receives the highest snowfall on Earth?
In the east, while snowfall does not approach western levels, the region near the Great Lakes and the mountains of the Northeast receive the most	Which regions in the East receives the most amount of snowfall?
, tornadoes are more common than anywhere else on Earth and touch down most commonly in the spring and summer	During which seasons are tornados most common?
There was the Great Mississippi Flood of 1927, the Great Flood of 1993, and widespread flooding and mudslides caused by the 1982-1983 El Niño event in the western United States	The Great Mississippi occurred during what year?
The West Coast of the continental United States and areas of Alaska make up part of the Pacific Ring of Fire, an area of heavy tectonic and volcanic activity that is the source of 90% of the world's earthquakes	What is the area in the pacific known for heavy volcanic activity?
Audio CDs and audio CD players have been commercially available since October 1982	When did Audio CDs become available for purchase?
In 2014, revenues from digital music services matched those from physical format sales for the first time	In what year were digital and physical music sales the same?
Prototypes were developed by Philips and Sony independently in the late 1970s	Who created Compact Disc prototypes in the 1970s?
In 1977, Philips then established a laboratory with the mission of creating a digital audio disc	In what year did Philips institute a laboratory to create a digital audio disc?
Technical details of Sony's digital audio disc were presented during the 62nd AES Convention, held on 13–16 March 1979, in Brussels	Where was the 62nd AES Convention held?
As a result, in 1979, Sony and Philips set up a joint task force of engineers to design a new digital audio disc	In what year did Sony and Philips band together to design a new digital audio disc?
The first artist to sell a million copies on CD was Dire Straits, with their 1985 album Brothers in Arms	Who first sold a million copies on CD?
In June 1985, the computer-readable CD-ROM and, in 1990, CD-Recordable were introduced, also developed by both Sony and Philips	What does ROM stand for?
As of 2012, CDs and DVDs made up only 34 percent of music sales in the United States	What portion of music sales did CDs and DVDs account for in the United States as of 2012?
Replicated CDs are mass-produced initially using a hydraulic press	How are CDs mass produced?
After a metallic reflecting layer is applied to the clear blank substrate, the disc goes under a UV light for curing and it is ready to go to press	What materials can be used to make the reflective layer on a CD?
The die is a negative image of the glass master: typically, several are made, depending on the number of pressing mills that are to make the CD	What is the term for a negative image of the glass master?
The most expensive part of a CD is the jewel case	What is the priciest component of a CD?
The design life is from 20 to 100 years, depending on the quality of the discs, the quality of the writing drive, and storage conditions	How long are CDs expected to last?
These consumer audio CD recorders use the Serial Copy Management System , an early form of digital rights management , to conform to the United States' Audio Home Recording Act 	What does SCMS stand for?
Due to technical limitations, the original ReWritable CD could be written no faster than 4x speed	How fast could the first ReWritable CD be written?
In order to accommodate the spiral pattern of data, the semiconductor laser is placed on a swing arm within the disc tray of any CD player	Where is the semiconductor laser found in a CD player?
Instead, non-return-to-zero, inverted encoding is used: a change from pit to land or land to pit indicates a one, while no change indicates a series of zeros	What type of encoding do CDs implement?
Consequently, CDs are more likely to suffer damage on the label side of the disc	Where can one expect to find damage on a disc?
The digital data on a CD begins at the center of the disc and proceeds toward the edge, which allows adaptation to the different size formats available	Where is the start of data on a CD?
The document is known colloquially as the Red Book CD-DA after the colour of its cover	Where does the Red Book get it's name from?
The disc can be played on a regular audio CD player, but when played on a special CD+G player, it can output a graphics signal ; these graphics are almost exclusively used to display lyrics on a television set for karaoke performers to sing along with	What is the primary use of Compact Disc + Graphics?
One CD-R disc can hold up to 60 minutes of standard quality SVCD-format video	How much video can a CD-R contain?
Photo CD is a system designed by Kodak for digitizing and storing photos on a CD	Who created Photo CDs?
"Known at least as early as 2001, attempts were made by record companies to market ""copy-protected"" non-standard compact discs, which cannot be ripped, or copied, to hard drives or easily converted to MP3s"	When did record companies first attempt to protect their CDs from copying?
A transistor is a semiconductor device used to amplify or switch electronic signals and electrical power	What is the use of a transistor?
First conceived by Julius Lilienfeld in 1926 and practically implemented in 1947 by American physicists John Bardeen, Walter Brattain, and William Shockley, the transistor revolutionized the field of electronics, and paved the way for smaller and cheaper radios, calculators, and computers, among other things	When was the first transistor created?
The thermionic triode, a vacuum tube invented in 1907, enabled amplified radio technology and long-distance telephony	When was the thermionic triode invented?
From November 17, 1947 to December 23, 1947, John Bardeen and Walter Brattain at AT&T's Bell Labs in the United States performed experiments and observed that when two gold point contacts were applied to a crystal of germanium, a signal was produced with the output power greater than the input	At what time did Bardeen and Brattain experiment on increasing signal output?
In 1948, the point-contact transistor was independently invented by German physicists Herbert Mataré and Heinrich Welker while working at the Compagnie des Freins et Signaux, a Westinghouse subsidiary located in Paris	In what year was the point-contact transistor invented?
A logic gate consists of up to about twenty transistors whereas an advanced microprocessor, as of 2009, can use as many as 3 billion transistors 	How many transistors make up a logic gate?
This property is called gain	Why is a transistor so useful?
There are two types of transistors, which have slight differences in how they are used in a circuit	How many types of transistors are there?
The collector voltage drops because of reduced resistance from collector to emitter	Why does the collector voltage drop in grounded-emitter transistor circuits?
Providing sufficient base drive current is a key problem in the use of bipolar transistors as switches	What is a major problem with using bipolar transistors as switches?
"Parameters are chosen such that the ""off"" output is limited to leakage currents too small to affect connected circuitry; the resistance of the transistor in the ""on"" state is too small to affect circuitry; and the transition between the two states is fast enough not to have a detrimental effect"	How are parameters chosen in a switching circuit?
Bipolar transistors are so named because they conduct by using both majority and minority carriers	What gives bipolar transistors their name?
BJTs have three terminals, corresponding to the three layers of semiconductor—an emitter, a base, and a collector	How many terminals do BJTs have?
The conductivity is varied by the electric field that is produced when a voltage is applied between the gate and source terminals; hence the current flowing between the drain and source is controlled by the voltage applied between the gate and source	What determines the conductivity in a FET?
FETs are divided into two families: junction FET and insulated gate FET 	How many groups are FETs split into?
FETs are further divided into depletion-mode and enhancement-mode types, depending on whether the channel is turned on or off with zero gate-to-source voltage	How are FET's separated?
The bipolar junction transistor was the most commonly used transistor in the 1960s and 70s	What was the most frequently used transistor in the 1960s and 70s?
The Pro Electron standard, the European Electronic Component Manufacturers Association part numbering scheme, begins with two letters: the first gives the semiconductor type ; the second letter denotes the intended use (A for diode, C for general-purpose transistor, etc	What is the Pro Electron standard?
"The JEDEC EIA370 transistor device numbers usually start with ""2N"", indicating a three-terminal device , then a 2, 3 or 4-digit sequential number with no significance as to device properties "	What does the JEDEC EIA370 transistor number start with?
3	What is the most common amount of extra digits in a device number?
Since devices are second-sourced, a manufacturer's prefix now is an unreliable indicator of who made the device	What was once an indicator of the devices creator?
The junction forward voltage is the voltage applied to the emitter–base junction of a BJT in order to make the base conduct a specified current	What is the junction forward voltage?
Because the electron mobility is higher than the hole mobility for all semiconductor materials, a given bipolar n–p–n transistor tends to be swifter than an equivalent p–n–p transistor	What is quicker, a bipolar n-p-n transistor or a p-n-p transistor?
Discrete transistors are individually packaged transistors	What is a discrete transistor?
In the Pre-Modern era, many people's sense of self and purpose was often expressed via a faith in some form of deity, be that in a single God or in many gods	What did many people in the Pre-Modern era express their faith through?
"The term ""modern"" was coined in the 16th century to indicate present or recent times "	What term was coined in the 16th century to indicate present time?
"The term ""Early Modern"" was introduced in the English language in the 1930s"	What term was created in the 1930's to separate the middle ages form the 1800's?
In the Contemporary era, there were various socio-technological trends	In what era were there many socio-technological trends?
In Asia, various Chinese dynasties and Japanese shogunates controlled the Asian sphere	Who controlled the Asian Sphere during the period between 1600-1868?
In China, urbanization increased as the population grew and as the division of labor grew more complex	Name one of the reasons urbanization grew in China.
The Qing dynasty was founded after the fall of the Ming, the last Han Chinese dynasty, by the Manchus	What was founded after the fall of the Ming?
"Society in the Japanese ""Tokugawa period"" , unlike the shogunates before it, was based on the strict class hierarchy originally established by Toyotomi Hideyoshi"	What was society based on during the Tukugawa period?
On the Indian subcontinent, the Mughal Empire ruled most of India in the early 18th century	Who ruled most of India in the early 18th century?
The commercial colonization of India commenced in 1757, after the Battle of Plassey, when the Nawab of Bengal surrendered his dominions to the British East India Company, in 1765, when the Company was granted the diwani, or the right to collect revenue, in Bengal and Bihar, or in 1772, when the Company established a capital in Calcutta, appointed its first Governor-General, Warren Hastings, and became directly involved in governance	When did the commercial colonization of India begin?
The Maratha states, following the Anglo-Maratha wars, eventually lost to the British East India Company in 1818 with the Third Anglo-Maratha War	In what year did the Maratha states lose to the British East Company?
The Dutch East India Company and British East India Company were dissolved by their respective governments, who took over the direct administration of the colonies	What dispatched of The Dutch East India Company and the British East India Company?
Many major events caused Europe to change around the start of the 16th century, starting with the Fall of Constantinople in 1453, the fall of Muslim Spain and the discovery of the Americas in 1492, and Martin Luther's Protestant Reformation in 1517	In what year did the fall of Constantinople happen? 
Russia experienced territorial growth through the 17th century, which was the age of Cossacks	When did Russia experience territorial growth?
Traditionally, the European intellectual transformation of and after the Renaissance bridged the Middle Ages and the Modern era	What bridged the middle ages to the modern era?
Enlightenment gained momentum more or less simultaneously in many parts of Europe and America	Where did Enlightenment gain momentum?
Renaissance humanism took a close study of the Latin and Greek classical texts, and was antagonistic to the values of scholasticism with its emphasis on the accumulated commentaries; and humanists were involved in the sciences, philosophies, arts and poetry of classical antiquity	What did renaissance humanism reference?
The quarrel of the Ancients and the Moderns was a literary and artistic quarrel that heated up in the early 1690s and shook the Académie française	What was the basis of the quarrel between the Ancients and the moderns?
The Scientific Revolution was a period when European ideas in classical physics, astronomy, biology, human anatomy, chemistry, and other classical sciences were rejected and led to doctrines supplanting those that had prevailed from Ancient Greece to the Middle Ages which would lead to a transition to modern science	What s the Scientific Revolution?
The changes were accompanied by violent turmoil which included the trial and execution of the king, vast bloodshed and repression during the Reign of Terror, and warfare involving every other major European power	What happened to the king after the trial?
The campaigns of French Emperor and General Napoleon Bonaparte characterized the Napoleonic Era	What characterized the Napoleonic Era?
Italian unification was the political and social movement that annexed different states of the Italian peninsula into the single state of Italy in the 19th century	What is Italian Unification?
Beginning the Age of Revolution, the American Revolution and the ensuing political upheaval during the last half of the 18th century saw the Thirteen Colonies of North America overthrow the governance of the Parliament of Great Britain, and then reject the British monarchy itself to become the sovereign United States of America	How did the Thirteen Colonies become The United States Of America?
The American Revolution begun with fighting at Lexington and Concord	Where did the American Revolution start?
The Spanish American wars of independence were the numerous wars against Spanish rule in Spanish America that took place during the early 19th century, from 1808 until 1829, directly related to the Napoleonic French invasion of Spain	When did the wars against Spanish rule occur?
When the Central Junta fell to the French, numerous new Juntas appeared all across the Americas, eventually resulting in a chain of newly independent countries stretching from Argentina and Chile in the south, to Mexico in the north	Who did the central Junta fall to?
The first Industrial Revolution merged into the Second Industrial Revolution around 1850, when technological and economic progress gained momentum with the development of steam-powered ships and railways, and later in the 19th century with the internal combustion engine and electric power generation	When did the first industrial revolution merge into the second? 
Industrialization is the process of social and economic change whereby a human group is transformed from a pre-industrial society into an industrial one	What is industrialization? 
The modern petroleum industry started in 1846 with the discovery of the process of refining kerosene from coal by Nova Scotian Abraham Pineo Gesner	When did the modern petroleum industry start? 
The advancements made a great contribution to the quality of life	What did the advancements during the revolution improve for people?
In the latter part of the second revolution, Thomas Alva Edison developed many devices that greatly influenced life around the world and is often credited with the creation of the first industrial research laboratory	Thomas Edison is credited with?
The European Revolutions of 1848, known in some countries as the Spring of Nations or the Year of Revolution, were a series of political upheavals throughout the European continent	When did the European revolutions occur?
Following the Enlightenment's ideas, the reformers looked to the Scientific Revolution and industrial progress to solve the social problems which arose with the Industrial Revolution	What did the reformers look to to solve social problems?
Under Peter I , Russia was proclaimed an Empire in 1721 and became recognized as a world power	Under whom was Russia declared an empire?
The Victorian era of the United Kingdom was the period of Queen Victoria's reign from June 1837 to January 1901	What was the Victorian era of the United Kingdom? 
"In Britain's ""imperial century"", victory over Napoleon left Britain without any serious international rival, other than Russia in central Asia"	What did defeating Napoleon leave Britain without?
British imperial strength was underpinned by the steamship and the telegraph, new technologies invented in the second half of the 19th century, allowing it to control and defend the Empire	What was British imperial strength replace by?
The Bourbon Restoration followed the ousting of Napoleon I of France in 1814	The Bourbon Restoration followed what event?
The Franco-Prussian War was a conflict between France and Prussia, while Prussia was backed up by the North German Confederation, of which it was a member, and the South German states of Baden, Württemberg and Bavaria	What countries were involved in the Franco-Russian war?
The major European powers laid claim to the areas of Africa where they could exhibit a sphere of influence over the area	Why did European powers lay claim to areas Africa?
At the time of the Berlin Conference, Africa contained one-fifth of the world’s population living in one-quarter of the world’s land area	What percent of the worlds population did Africa posses at the Berlin Conference?
From the 1880s to 1914, the European powers expanded their control across the African continent, competing with each other for Africa’s land and resources	Through what period did European powers expand control in Africa?
Around the end of the 19th century and into the 20th century, the Meiji era was marked by the reign of the Meiji Emperor	What was the Meija era marked by?
The peasant class interpreted the term for military service, ketsu-eki literally, and attempted to avoid service by any means necessary	What did the peasant class name the mandatory military service law?
The Antebellum Age was a period of increasing division in the country based on the growth of slavery in the American South and in the western territories of Kansas and Nebraska that eventually lead to the Civil War in 1861	What is the antebellum age?
Lincoln proved effective in mobilizing support for the war goals, raising large armies and supplying them, avoiding foreign interference, and making the end of slavery a war goal	What did Lincoln do well in the war?
During the Gilded Age, there was substantial growth in population in the United States and extravagant displays of wealth and excess of America's upper-class during the post-Civil War and post-Reconstruction era, in the late 19th century	What happened in the Glided Age/
With the creation of a transportation and communication infrastructure, the corporation became the dominant form of business organization and a managerial revolution transformed business operations	What creations brought in the modern industrial economy?
Replacing the classical physics in use since the end of the scientific revolution, modern physics arose in the early 20th century with the advent of quantum physics, substituting mathematical studies for experimental studies and examining equations to build a theoretical structure	When did modern physics arise?
The assertions of Chinese philosophy began to integrate concepts of Western philosophy, as steps toward modernization	Why did Chinese philosophy begin to mix with western concepts?
Developed from earlier secular traditions, modern Humanist ethical philosophies affirmed the dignity and worth of all people, based on the ability to determine right and wrong by appealing to universal human qualities, particularly rationality, without resorting to the supernatural or alleged divine authority from religious texts	What were Humanist ethical philosophy's developed from?
Albert Einstein is known for his theories of special relativity and general relativity	What is Albert Einstein known for? 
When the Constitution of Australia came into force, the colonies collectively became states of the Commonwealth of Australia	When did the colonies collectively become a part of the Commonwealth of Australia?
Responding to these civil failures and discontent, the Qing Imperial Court did attempt to reform the government in various ways, such as the decision to draft a constitution in 1906, the establishment of provincial legislatures in 1909, and the preparation for a national parliament in 1910	What did the Qing dynasty attempt to do n the face of civil unrest? 
In 1912, the Republic of China was established and Sun Yat-sen was inaugurated in Nanjing as the first Provisional President	When was the Republic of China established?
Despite the fact that various warlords gained control of the government in Beijing during the warlord era, this did not constitute a new era of control or governance, because other warlords did not acknowledge the transitory governments in this period and were a law unto themselves	Who ultimately gained control of the Beijing government?
Four years into the 20th century saw the Russo-Japanese War with the Battle of Port Arthur establishing the Empire of Japan as a world power	When dd the Russo-Japanese war take place?
The Edwardian era in the United Kingdom is the period spanning the reign of King Edward VII up to the end of the First World War, including the years surrounding the sinking of the RMS Titanic	What is the Edwardian era?
The alignment of the three powers, supplemented by various agreements with Japan, the United States, and Spain, constituted a powerful counterweight to the Triple Alliance of Germany, Austria-Hungary, and Italy, the third having concluded an additional secret agreement with France effectively nullifying her Alliance commitments	The Triple Entente served as a counter to what agreement? 
An example is the Baghdad Railway which was planned to connect the Ottoman Empire cities of Konya and Baghdad with a line through modern-day Turkey, Syria and Iraq	Where was the Baghdad Railway Suppose to connect?
The First World War began in 1914 and lasted to the final Armistice in 1918	When did the first World War begin? 
Much of the fighting in World War I took place along the Western Front, within a system of opposing manned trenches and fortifications running from the North Sea to the border of Switzerland	Where did most of the fighting in World War I take place?
Ultimately, World War I created a decisive break with the old world order that had emerged after the Napoleonic Wars, which was modified by the mid-19th century's nationalistic revolutions	In what century did the Nationalistic revolutions occur?
In October 1917, a red faction revolution occurred in which the Red Guard, armed groups of workers and deserting soldiers directed by the Bolshevik Party, seized control of Saint Petersburg and began an immediate armed takeover of cities and villages throughout the former Russian Empire	What event happened in October of 1917?
Another action in 1917 that is of note was the armistice signed between Russia and the Central Powers at Brest-Litovsk	When was the armistice signed between Russia and Central powers?
The Russian Civil War was a multi-party war that occurred within the former Russian Empire after the Russian provisional government collapsed and the Soviets under the domination of the Bolshevik party assumed power, first in Petrograd (St	Where did Soviets under the rule of the Bolshevik first assume power during the Russian Civil War?
The most intense fighting took place from 1918 to 1920	In what time period did the most brutal battles occur?
In 1917 Sun Yat-sen had become commander-in-chief of a rival military government in Guangzhou in collaboration with southern warlords	Sun Yat-Sen became the leader of what military group.
The social and societal upheaval known as the Roaring Twenties began in North America and spread to Europe in the aftermath of World War I	"What is the ""Roaring Twenties"" ?"
In Germany, the Weimar Republic gave way to episodes of political and economic turmoil, which culminated with the German hyperinflation of 1923 and the failed Beer Hall Putsch of that same year	When did the hyperinflation of 1923 occur?
Worldwide prosperity changed dramatically with the onset of the Great Depression in 1929	What changed worldwide property drasrically?
The depression had devastating effects in virtually every country, rich or poor	Where did the depression cause negative effects?
America's Great Depression ended in 1941 with America's entry into World War II	When did Americas Great Depression end?
The interwar period was also marked by a radical change in the international order, away from the balance of power that had dominated pre–World War I Europe	What was the Interwar period marked by?
A series of international crises strained the League to its limits, the earliest being the invasion of Manchuria by Japan and the Abyssinian crisis of 1935/36 in which Italy invaded Abyssinia, one of the only free African nations at that time	Who was first to invade Manchuria?
Hungry for raw materials and pressed by a growing population, Japan initiated the seizure of Manchuria in September 1931 and established ex-Qing emperor Puyi as head of the puppet state of Manchukuo in 1932	When did the seizure of Manchuria occur?
The Second Sino-Japanese War had seen tensions rise between Imperial Japan and the United States; events such as the Panay incident and the Nanking Massacre turned American public opinion against Japan	What war saw tensions arise between between Imperial Japan and the United States?
On December 7, 1941, Japan attacked the United States at Pearl Harbor, bringing it too into the war on the Allied side	Where did Japan attack the United States?
It is possible that around 62 million people died in the war; estimates vary greatly	What Was estimated amount of deaths during the war?
"The Holocaust was the deliberate and systematic murder of millions of Jews and other ""unwanted"" during World War II by the Nazi regime in Germany"	What is the Holocaust?
Western Europe later aligned as the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and Eastern Europe as the Warsaw Pact	What does the term NATO represent?
Over the course of the 20th century, the world's per-capita gross domestic product grew by a factor of five, much more than all earlier centuries combined 	By what percentage did the world's per-capita gross domestic product grow by during the 20th century?
Large-scale industry and more centralized media made brutal dictatorships possible on an unprecedented scale in the middle of the century, leading to wars that were also unprecedented	What did the media industry make possible in the middle of the century?
The Soviet Union created the Eastern Bloc of countries that it occupied, annexing some as Soviet Socialist Republics and maintaining others as satellite states that would later form the Warsaw Pact	what did the Soviet Union annex some of it's territory as?
International crises arose, such as the Berlin Blockade , the Korean War , the Berlin Crisis of 1961, the Vietnam War , the Cuban Missile Crisis , the Soviet war in Afghanistan and NATO exercises in November 1983	Through what time period did the Berlin Blockade last?
The Cold War drew to a close in the late 1980s and the early 1990s	During what time was the cold war close to happening?
In Latin America in the 1970s, leftists acquired a significant political influence which prompted the right-wing, ecclesiastical authorities and a large portion of the individual country's upper class to support coup d'états to avoid what they perceived as a communist threat	What caused Latin America's right-wing authorities to support coup o'etats?
The Space Age is a period encompassing the activities related to the Space Race, space exploration, space technology, and the cultural developments influenced by these events	What did Sputnik 1 usher in?
It can also be used in a pejorative sense, meaning an area or region is perceived to be under excessive American cultural or military influence or control	"What types of control are considered when labeling a country with the perjorative ""51st state"" label?"
Under Article IV, Section Three of the United States Constitution, which outlines the relationship among the states, Congress has the power to admit new states to the union	What does Article IV, Section three of the US Constitution outline?
Puerto Rico has been discussed as a potential 51st state of the United States	What country has been regarded as a potential new addition to the United States?
Since 1898, Puerto Rico has had limited representation in the Congress in the form of a Resident Commissioner, a nonvoting delegate	How long has Puerto Rico had representation in Congress?
federal taxes: import/export taxes, federal commodity taxes, social security taxes, therefore contributing to the American Government	What makes up the federal taxes Puerto Rican citizens pay?
by Spain following the end of the Spanish–American War, and Puerto Ricans have been U	In the aftermath of which war was the U.S. granted Puerto Rico?
Congress directed local government to organize a constitutional convention to write the Puerto Rico Constitution in 1951	When was the Puerto Rican constitution written?
"Puerto Rico is designated in its constitution as the ""Commonwealth of Puerto Rico"""	How is Puerto Rico designated in its constitution?
In November 2012, a referendum resulted in 54 percent of respondents voting to reject the current status under the territorial clause of the U	What percentage of voters rejected the status of territory?
The Washington Post, The New York Times and the Boston Herald have published opinion pieces expressing support for the statehood of Puerto Rico	What newspapers have published opinion pieces expressing support for Puerto Rico's statehood?
Several days after the referendum, the Resident Commissioner Pedro Pierluisi, Governor Luis Fortuño, and Governor-elect Alejandro García Padilla wrote separate letters to the President of the United States Barack Obama addressing the results of the voting	What politicians pushed for statehood for Puerto Rico?
On May 15, 2013, Resident Commissioner Pierluisi introduced H	When was H.R. 2000 introduced?
"43 of The Federalist Papers, James Madison considered the implications of the definition of the ""seat of government"" found in the United States Constitution"	Who considered the implications of the definition of the seat of government in the Constitution?
"residents who support the statehood movement sometimes use a shortened version of the Revolutionary War protest motto ""No taxation without representation"", omitting the initial ""No"", denoting their lack of Congressional representation; the phrase is now printed on newly issued Washington, D"	What Revolutionary War motto have Washington, D.C. statehood supporters modified and used?
Statehood Party, a political party; it has since merged with the local Green Party affiliate to form the D	What party did the D.C. Statehood Party merge when?
Other less likely contenders are Guam and the United States Virgin Islands, both of which are unincorporated organized territories of the United States	What is another likely country for statehood?
The Philippines has had small grassroots movements for U	What country had small grassroots movement for US Statehood?
"In Canada, ""the 51st state"" is a phrase generally used in such a way as to imply that if a certain political course is taken, Canada's destiny will be as little more than a part of the United States"	What is another connotation for the 51st state label?
In the 1988 federal election, the Liberals asserted that the proposed Free Trade Agreement amounted to an American takeover of Canada—notably, the party ran an ad in which Progressive Conservative strategists, upon the adoption of the agreement, slowly erased the Canada-U	Who suggested that the Free Trade Agreement amounted to an American takeover of Canada?
The colonies that had confederated to form the United States invaded Canada at least twice, neither time succeeding in taking control of the territory	When did Quebec land in British hands?
In the late 1940s, during the last days of the Dominion of Newfoundland , there was mainstream support, although not majority, for Newfoundland to form an economic union with the United States, thanks to the efforts of the Economic Union Party and significant U	When were the last days of the Dominion of Newfoundland?
"In the United States, the term ""the 51st state"" when applied to Canada can serve to highlight the similarities and close relationship between the United States and Canada"	What does Canada being referred to as the 51st state in a positive way mean in the US, generally?
-ruled Canal Zone territory from 1903 to 1979, and formerly British Honduras or Belize since 1981)	When did Panama have the US-ruled Canal Zone Territory?
Cuba, like many Spanish territories, wanted to break free from Spain	What country was Cuba a territory of?
Several websites assert that Israel is the 51st state due to the annual funding and defense support it receives from the United States	Why is Israel referred to as the 51st state?
In Article 3 of the Treaty of San Francisco between the Allied Powers and Japan, which came into force in April 1952, the U	When did Artcle 3 of the Treaty of San Francisco come into effect?
In 2010 there was an attempt to register a 51st State Party with the New Zealand Electoral Commission	When did the 51st State Party attempt to register in New Zealand?
"Bush's 2007 European tour, Edi Rama, Tirana's mayor and leader of the opposition Socialists, said: ""Albania is for sure the most pro-American country in Europe, maybe even in the world"	Who is the mayor of Tirana?
During World War II, when Denmark was occupied by Nazi Germany, the United States briefly controlled Greenland for battlefields and protection	When did the US control Greenland?
Poland has historically been staunchly pro-American, dating back to General Tadeusz Kościuszko and Casimir Pulaski's involvement in the American Revolution	What had been Poland's stance towards the US, historically?
The Party of Reconstruction in Sicily, which claimed 40,000 members in 1944, campaigned for Sicily to be admitted as a U	How many members did the Party of Reconstruction in Sicily have in 1944?
There are four categories of terra nullius, land that is unclaimed by any state: the small unclaimed territory of Bir Tawil between Egypt and Sudan, Antarctica, the oceans, and celestial bodies such as the Moon or Mars	What are the four categories of terra nullius?
An antenna , or aerial, is an electrical device which converts electric power into radio waves, and vice versa	What device is able to change electric powerinto radio waves and also do the reverse?
Typically an antenna consists of an arrangement of metallic conductors , electrically connected to the receiver or transmitter	What is frequently used to connect elements to the receiver?
The words antenna and aerial are used interchangeably	What is an acceptable synonym for antenna?
The origin of the word antenna relative to wireless apparatus is attributed to Italian radio pioneer Guglielmo Marconi	Who is most associated with the emergence of the word antenna?
Antennas are required by any radio receiver or transmitter to couple its electrical connection to the electromagnetic field	What is essential for the mating of the elements that create radio waves?
One example of omnidirectional antennas is the very common vertical antenna or whip antenna consisting of a metal rod 	What is the main element of an omnidirectional antenna?
Both the vertical and dipole antennas are simple in construction and relatively inexpensive	Are basic antennas expensive?
Antennas more complex than the dipole or vertical designs are usually intended to increase the directivity and consequently the gain of the antenna	What are different designs aimed at increasing?
For instance, a phased array consists of two or more simple antennas which are connected together through an electrical network	How many antenna would make up a phased array?
However a log-periodic dipole array consists of a number of dipole elements of different lengths in order to obtain a somewhat directional antenna having an extremely wide bandwidth: these are frequently used for television reception in fringe areas	What type of antenna formation is made up of multiple dipole elements of varying lengths?
At low frequencies , arrays of vertical towers are used to achieve directionality and they will occupy large areas of land	For radio broadcast that one would hear in their car what type of towers are used?
An antenna lead-in is the transmission line which connects the antenna to a transmitter or receiver	What is mainly responsible for the connection of the antenna to its end destinations?
Monopole antennas consist of a single radiating element such as a metal rod, often mounted over a conducting surface, a ground plane	Monopole antennas consist of what element?
The most widely used class of antenna, a dipole antenna consists of two symmetrical radiators such as metal rods or wires, with one side of the balanced feedline from the transmitter or receiver attached to each	What is the most widley used antenna class?
A necessary condition for the aforementioned reciprocity property is that the materials in the antenna and transmission medium are linear and reciprocal	What must be true of the antenna and transmission medium for the repiprocity rule to apply ?
Antennas are characterized by a number of performance measures which a user would be concerned with in selecting or designing an antenna for a particular application	How could one deide what type of antenna is nedded for a project?
Resonant antennas are expected to be used around a particular resonant frequency; an antenna must therefore be built or ordered to match the frequency range of the intended application	Which antenna type would be best for a project requiring a specific frequency?
An antenna transmits and receives radio waves with a particular polarization which can be reoriented by tilting the axis of the antenna in many cases	What is the essential difference in radio waves transmitted by an antenna?
The majority of antenna designs are based on the resonance principle	What is the basis for the way most antennas are developed?
The radio signal's electrical component induces a voltage in the conductor	What part of the radio signal creates voltage?
The ordinary half-wave dipole is probably the most widely used antenna design	What is the most popular antenna type?
The standing wave forms with this desired pattern at the design frequency, f0, and antennas are normally designed to be this size	What frequency are antennas normally designed to be?
The quarter-wave elements imitate a series-resonant electrical element due to the standing wave present along the conductor	How do quarter wave elements act in relation to a series relevant electrical element?
By adding an inductance in series with the antenna, a so-called loading coil, the capacitive reactance of this antenna can be cancelled leaving a pure resistance which can then be matched to the transmission line	What could be coupled with an antenna to form pure resistance?
The end result is that the resonant antenna will efficiently feed a signal into the transmission line only when the source signal's frequency is close to that of the design frequency of the antenna, or one of the resonant multiples	 If your were unable to match the source frequency with the design frequency of the antenna what could you use?
The amount of signal received from a distant transmission source is essentially geometric in nature due to the inverse square law, and this leads to the concept of effective area	What accounts for the geometry involved in the use of an antenna?
Returning to the basic concept of current flows in a conductor, consider what happens if a half-wave dipole is not connected to a feed point, but instead shorted out	What is a half wave dipole need to be coupled with in most instances?
A Yagi-Uda array uses passive elements to greatly increase gain	What can take advantage of these elements to add more gain?
It is also possible to use multiple active elements and combine them together with transmission lines to produce a similar system where the phases add up to reinforce the output	What can be paired with transmission lines to create phases that would support output?
Reflection of the original signal also occurs when it hits an extended conductive surface, in a fashion similar to a mirror	If you wanted to somehow clone the original signal you could use?
Resonating such an inductor with a capacitor at the frequency of operation not only cancels the reactance but greatly magnifies the very small radiation resistance of such a loop	What magnifies the small radiation resistance of a loop?
Antenna tuning generally refers to cancellation of any reactance seen at the antenna terminals, leaving only a resistive impedance which might or might not be exactly the desired impedance 	Where does cancellation of any reactance seen?
Although a resonant antenna has a purely resistive feed-point impedance at a particular frequency, many applications require using an antenna over a range of frequencies	What type of antenna has impedance at a specific frequency?
It turns out that the amount of reactance seen at the terminals of a resonant antenna when the frequency is shifted, say, by 5%, depends very much on the diameter of the conductor used	What characteristic would be better if it were steady?
Rather than just using a thick tube, there are similar techniques used to the same effect such as replacing thin wire elements with cages to simulate a thicker element	What type of tubes are generally used for sturdier always of antennas?
A high-gain antenna will radiate most of its power in a particular direction, while a low-gain antenna will radiate over a wider angle	What is an acknowledgement of the range of possible direction for and antenna?
High-gain antennas have the advantage of longer range and better signal quality, but must be aimed carefully at the other antenna	Antennas with higher gain have what positive feature?
Due to reciprocity the gain of an antenna used for transmitting must be proportional to its effective area when used for receiving	What must the relationship of an antenna and the receiving area be due to reciprocity?
The radiation pattern of an antenna is a plot of the relative field strength of the radio waves emitted by the antenna at different angles	A plot of the radiation behaviors of an antenna would show what?
"The radiation of many antennas shows a pattern of maxima or ""lobes"" at various angles, separated by ""nulls"", angles where the radiation falls to zero"	What is the term that refers to areas where an antennas radiation is zero? 
As an electro-magnetic wave travels through the different parts of the antenna system it may encounter differences in impedance (E/H, V/I, etc	What is one piece that makes up an antenna system?
Efficiency of a transmitting antenna is the ratio of power actually radiated to the power absorbed by the antenna terminals	A measure of the power that is useable and the power absorbed by the terminals?
For instance, if a transmitter delivers 100 W into an antenna having an efficiency of 80%, then the antenna will radiate 80 W as radio waves and produce 20 W of heat	What would need to be placed into the transmitter to create ten W oh warmth? 
However loss resistance will generally affect the feedpoint impedance, adding to its resistive component	What can increase the feedpoint impedance of a component?
According to reciprocity, the efficiency of an antenna used as a receiving antenna is identical to the efficiency as defined above	In what type of programs would low efficiency antennas not make a difference in effectiveness?
The definition of antenna gain or power gain already includes the effect of the antenna's efficiency	What else is also known as power gain?
This is fortunate, since antennas at lower frequencies which are not rather large are inevitably inefficient 	Small and minimal frequency antennas are know to be what?
The polarization of an antenna refers to the orientation of the electric field of the radio wave with respect to the Earth's surface and is determined by the physical structure of the antenna and by its orientation; note that this designation is totally distinct from the antenna's directionality	What is another name for electric-field?
Reflections generally affect polarization	What mostly affects polarization?
Polarization is predictable from an antenna's geometry, although in some cases it is not at all obvious 	Whats predictable about an antenna's geometry?
Polarization is the sum of the E-plane orientations over time projected onto an imaginary plane perpendicular to the direction of motion of the radio wave	What are electrical fields projected on to?
It is best for the receiving antenna to match the polarization of the transmitted wave for optimum reception	What is the best for an recieving antenna for optimum reception?
Maximum power transfer requires matching the impedance of an antenna system to the complex conjugate of the impedance of the receiver or transmitter	What requires matching of the empedance to an antenna system?
"For instance, a ""whip antenna"" can be made significantly shorter than 1/4 wavelength long, for practical reasons, and then resonated using a so-called loading coil"	What can be shorter than 1/4 wavelength long?
In principle this can always be done with a transformer, however the turns ratio of a transformer is not adjustable	What is not adjustable when it comes to a transformer?
Unlike the above antennas, traveling wave antennas are nonresonant so they have inherently broad bandwidth	What antenna's are nonresonant?
The radiation pattern and even the driving point impedance of an antenna can be influenced by the dielectric constant and especially conductivity of nearby objects	What is the radiation patter influenced by?
The net quality of a ground reflection depends on the topography of the surface	What is the net quality of the ground dependent of?
Given the larger refractive index of the ground compared to air , the phase of horizontally polarized radiation is reversed upon reflection 	What is the refractive index of the ground?
When an electromagnetic wave strikes a plane surface such as the ground, part of the wave is transmitted into the ground and part of it is reflected, according to the Fresnel coefficients	what is reflected and transmitted into the ground when a plane surface is struck?
The effective area or effective aperture of a receiving antenna expresses the portion of the power of a passing electromagnetic wave which it delivers to its terminals, expressed in terms of an equivalent area	What is the portion of something that is reached by the radio transmission called?
The bandwidth characteristics of a resonant antenna element can be characterized according to its Q, just as one uses to characterize the sharpness of an L-C resonant circuit	The properties of a usable radio frequency can be called its?
Q	What is a measure of the comparison between reactance and resistance?
5 meters tall would require the addition of a loading coil	What can be added to allow for an antenna shorter than the needed height to produce desired results?
Consider a half-wave dipole designed to work with signals 1 m wavelength, meaning the antenna would be approximately 50 cm across	How big would an antenna be used to with with one m wavelengths?
Recall that a current will reflect when there are changes in the electrical properties of the material	What sort of changes in material would a current reflect?
An electromagnetic wave refractor in some aperture antennas is a component which due to its shape and position functions to selectively delay or advance portions of the electromagnetic wavefront passing through it	What is used to allow one to control the function of wave fronts moving through an antenna?
The actual antenna which is transmitting the original wave then also may receive a strong signal from its own image from the ground	What can receive a stron signal by transmitting an original wave?
For horizontal propagation between transmitting and receiving antennas situated near the ground reasonably far from each other, the distances traveled by tne direct and reflected rays are nearly the same	What is between recieving and transmitting antenna's?
On the other hand, classical television transmissions are usually horizontally polarized, because in urban areas buildings can reflect the electromagnetic waves and create ghost images due to multipath propagation	What is another name for classical television transmissions?
The mathematics presented below are useful in analyzing the electrical behaviour of antenna arrays, where the properties of the individual array elements are already known	Where are the indiviual array elements known?
For an antenna element not connected to anything one can write	a antenna element not connected to anything is circuited how?
The difference in the above factors for the case of θ=0 is the reason that most broadcasting uses vertical polarization	What type of programmin relies on vertical polarization?
Loop antennas consist of a loop or coil of wire	What type of antenna can be formed by a circular segment of wire?
It is a fundamental property of antennas that the electrical characteristics of an antenna described in the next section, such as gain, radiation pattern, impedance, bandwidth, resonant frequency and polarization, are the same whether the antenna is transmitting or receiving	Are essential properties of an antenna changed based on what fungtion they are performing
The flowering plants , also known as Angiospermae or Magnoliophyta, are the most diverse group of land plants, with about 350,000 species	What are the most diverse group of land plants?
Fossilized spores suggest that higher plants have lived on land for at least 475 million years	How long have higher plants lived on land?
"The apparently sudden appearance of nearly modern flowers in the fossil record initially posed such a problem for the theory of evolution that it was called an ""abominable mystery"" by Charles Darwin"	What did Charles Darwin call the sudden appearance of nearly modern flowers in the fossil record?
The evolution of seed plants and later angiosperms appears to be the result of two distinct rounds of whole genome duplication events	How many distinct rounds of genome duplication events are suspected in the evolution of seed plants?
The earliest known macrofossil confidently identified as an angiosperm, Archaefructus liaoningensis, is dated to about 125 million years BP , whereas pollen considered to be of angiosperm origin takes the fossil record back to about 130 million years BP	When is the earliest known macrofossil identified as an angiosperm dated?
The great angiosperm radiation, when a great diversity of angiosperms appears in the fossil record, occurred in the mid-Cretaceous 	When does a great diversity of angiosperms appear in the fossil record?
Island genetics provides one proposed explanation for the sudden, fully developed appearance of flowering plants	What is one proposed explanation for the instant appearance of flowering plants?
Animals are also involved in the distribution of seeds	What are animals also a part of?
Flower ontogeny uses a combination of genes normally responsible for forming new shoots	What uses a combination of genes to form new shoots?
Flower evolution continues to the present day; modern flowers have been so profoundly influenced by humans that some of them cannot be pollinated in nature	How long has flower evolution occurred? 
The exact relationship between these eight groups is not yet clear, although there is agreement that the first three groups to diverge from the ancestral angiosperm were Amborellales, Nymphaeales, and Austrobaileyales	What three groups were the first to diverge from angiosperm?
"The botanical term ""Angiosperm"", from the Ancient Greek αγγείον, angeíon and σπέρμα, , was coined in the form Angiospermae by Paul Hermann in 1690, as the name of one of his primary divisions of the plant kingdom"	What term did Paul Hermann come up with in 1690?
In most taxonomies, the flowering plants are treated as a coherent group	In taxonomies, what type of group are flowering plants treated?
I	What does Magnoliophytina mean?
The internal classification of this group has undergone considerable revision	What internal component has undergone considerable revision?
Recent studies, as by the APG, show that the monocots form a monophyletic group but that the dicots do not 	What type of groups do monocots form, based on a recent APG studies?
The number of species of flowering plants is estimated to be in the range of 250,000 to 400,000	What is the estimated range for the number of flowering plants?
In the dicotyledons, the bundles in the very young stem are arranged in an open ring, separating a central pith from an outer cortex	What shape are the bundles in the young stem of dicotyledons arranged in?
The characteristic feature of angiosperms is the flower	What is the defining feature of angiosperms?
The flower may consist only of these parts, as in willow, where each flower comprises only a few stamens or two carpels	What is a willow's flower comprised of?
While the majority of flowers are perfect or hermaphrodite , flowering plants have developed numerous morphological and physiological mechanisms to reduce or prevent self-fertilization	What sexual feature do a majority of flowers demonstrate?
Double fertilization refers to a process in which two sperm cells fertilize cells in the ovary	What process does double fertilization refer to?
The character of the seed coat bears a definite relation to that of the fruit	The appearance of the seed coat bears a definite relation to that of what?
Agriculture is almost entirely dependent on angiosperms, which provide virtually all plant-based food, and also provide a significant amount of livestock feed	On what is agriculture almost completely dependent?
A	What does the rue family provide that makes it one group of high importance?
In English a member of either group may be called a dicotyledon and monocotyledon , or abbreviated, as dicot and monocot 	What do monocots usually have two of within each seed?
 Occupying 650 square kilometres along the banks of the Musi River, it has a population of about 6	How many square miles does Hyderabad cover?
Established in 1591 by Muhammad Quli Qutb Shah, Hyderabad remained under the rule of the Qutb Shahi dynasty for nearly a century before the Mughals captured the region	In what year was Hyderabad established?
Relics of Qutb Shahi and Nizam rule remain visible today, with the Charminar—commissioned by Muhammad Quli Qutb Shah—coming to symbolise Hyderabad	Which individual commissioned Chaminar?
Hyderabad was historically known as a pearl and diamond trading centre, and it continues to be known as the City of Pearls	What items had been historically traded in Hyderabad?
"According to John Everett-Heath, the author of Oxford Concise Dictionary of World Place Names, Hyderabad means ""Haydar's city"" or ""lion city"", from haydar and ābād "	What does the Oxford Concise Dictionary of World Place Names say Hyderabad means?
Archaeologists excavating near the city have unearthed Iron Age sites that may date from 500 BCE	There may be Iron Age findings near Hyderabad, what age are they thought to be from?
The Kakatiya dynasty was reduced to a vassal of the Khilji dynasty in 1310 after its defeat by Sultan Alauddin Khilji of the Delhi Sultanate	Who defeated the Kakatiya dynasty in 1310?
"Sultan Quli, a governor of Golkonda, revolted against the Bahmani Sultanate and established the Qutb Shahi dynasty in 1518; he rebuilt the mud-fort of Golconda and named the city ""Muhammad nagar"""	What position did Sultan Quli hold?
In 1713 Farrukhsiyar, the Mughal emperor, appointed Asif Jah I to be Viceroy of the Deccan, with the title Nizam-ul-Mulk 	What position did Farrukhsiyar hold?
In 1769 Hyderabad city became the formal capital of the Nizams	In what year did Hyderabad become the capital of Nizams?
On 17 September that year, the Indian Army took control of Hyderabad State after an invasion codenamed Operation Polo	What was the code name for the Indian Army invasion of Hyderabad?
On 1 November 1956 the states of India were reorganised by language	On what date was Hyderabad state divided into three?
Situated in the southern part of Telangana in southeastern India, Hyderabad is 1,566 kilometres south of Delhi, 699 kilometres southeast of Mumbai, and 570 kilometres north of Bangalore by road	How far south of Delhi, in miles, is Hyderabad?
Hyderabad has a tropical wet and dry climate bordering on a hot semi-arid climate 	Köppen Aw refers to what kind of climate?
Nehru Zoological Park, the city's one large zoo, is the first in India to have a lion and tiger safari park	What is the name of the largest zoo in Hyderabad?
"The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation oversees the civic infrastructure of the city's 18 ""circles"", which together encompass 150 municipal wards"	What is the entity that controls the infrastructure of Hyderabad?
The jurisdictions of the city's administrative agencies are, in ascending order of size: the Hyderabad Police area, Hyderabad district, the GHMC area and the area under the Hyderabad Metropolitan Development Authority 	Which Hyderabad agency is responsible for the largest area?
In 2005, the HMWSSB started operating a 116-kilometre-long water supply pipeline from Nagarjuna Sagar Dam to meet increasing demand	What dam began to provide water to Hyderabad in 2005?
Hyderabad produces around 4,500 tonnes of solid waste daily, which is transported from collection units in Imlibun, Yousufguda and Lower Tank Bund to the dumpsite in Jawaharnagar	Where is the site where Hyderabad's solid waste is dumped?
The Commissionerate of Health and Family Welfare is responsible for planning, implementation and monitoring of all facilities related to health and preventive services	Which agency is in charge of health and wellness services in Hyderabad?
Only 61% of children had been provided with all basic vaccines , fewer than in all other surveyed cities except Meerut	What percentage of the children in Hyderabad city had basic vaccinations in 2005?
When the GHMC was created in 2007, the area occupied by the municipality increased from 175 km2 to 650 km2 	What was the area of Hyderabad before the GHMC?
"Referred to as ""Hyderabadi"", the residents of Hyderabad are predominantly Telugu and Urdu speaking people, with minority Bengali, Gujarati , Kannada , Malayalam, Marathi, Marwari, Odia, Punjabi, Tamil and Uttar Pradeshi communities"	What are the people who live in Hyderabad called?
In the greater metropolitan area, 13% of the population live below the poverty line	Which percentage of Hyderabad's population is below the poverty line?
Many historic and tourist sites lie in south central Hyderabad, such as the Charminar, the Mecca Masjid, the Salar Jung Museum, the Nizam's Museum, the Falaknuma Palace, and the traditional retail corridor comprising the Pearl Market, Laad Bazaar and Madina Circle	In what region of Hyderabad is Mecca Masjid?
North of central Hyderabad lie Hussain Sagar, Tank Bund Road, Rani Gunj and the Secunderabad Railway Station	Where in Hyderabad is the Secunderabad Railway Station?
After the 1908 flooding of the Musi River, the city was expanded and civic monuments constructed, particularly during the rule of Mir Osman Ali Khan , whose patronage of architecture led to him being referred to as the maker of modern Hyderabad	After a flood in what year did Hyderabad expand?
Qutb Shahi architecture of the 16th and early 17th centuries followed classical Persian architecture featuring domes and colossal arches	What influence did Qutb Shahi architecture borrow from?
Among the oldest surviving examples of Nizam architecture in Hyderabad is the Chowmahalla Palace, which was the seat of royal power	The Chowmahalla Palace represents what type of architecture?
Hyderabad is the largest contributor to the gross domestic product , tax and other revenues, of Telangana, and the sixth largest deposit centre and fourth largest credit centre nationwide, as ranked by the Reserve Bank of India in June 2012	Where was Hyderabad ranked in 2012 as a producer of GDP in Talangana?
"Hyderabad's role in the pearl trade has given it the name ""City of Pearls"" and up until the 18th century, the city was also the only global trading centre for large diamonds"	In the 18th century there was one global trading hub for large diamonds, what was it?
The establishment of Indian Drugs and Pharmaceuticals Limited , a public sector undertaking, in 1961 was followed over the decades by many national and global companies opening manufacturing and research facilities in the city	In what year was Indian Drugs and Pharmaceuticals Limited established?
Like the rest of India, Hyderabad has a large informal economy that employs 30% of the labour force	What percentage of Hyderabad's employed are employed informally?
Hyderabad emerged as the foremost centre of culture in India with the decline of the Mughal Empire	What event pushed Hyderabad to the top of India's cultural centres?
The resulting ethnic mix popularised cultural events such as mushairas 	What are mushairas?
Hyderabad has continued with these traditions in its annual Hyderabad Literary Festival, held since 2010, showcasing the city's literary and cultural creativity	In what year did the Hyderabad Literary Festival start?
South Indian music and dances such as the Kuchipudi and Bharatanatyam styles are popular in the Deccan region	What is the Deccan region known for culturally?
Although the city is not particularly noted for theatre and drama, the state government promotes theatre with multiple programmes and festivals in such venues as the Ravindra Bharati, Shilpakala Vedika and Lalithakala Thoranam	What type of art might one encounter at Lalithakala Thoranam?
The region is well known for its Golconda and Hyderabad painting styles which are branches of Deccani painting	Golconda is a type of what kind of painting?
Such crafts include: Bidriware, a metalwork handicraft from neighbouring Karnataka, which was popularised during the 18th century and has since been granted a Geographical Indication tag under the auspices of the WTO act; and Zari and Zardozi, embroidery works on textile that involve making elaborate designs using gold, silver and other metal threads	In which century did metalwork become popular in Hyderabad?
Hyderabadi cuisine comprises a broad repertoire of rice, wheat and meat dishes and the skilled use of various spices	What type of foods are generally thought of as a part of Hyderabadi cuisine?
One of Hyderabad's earliest newspapers, The Deccan Times, was established in the 1780s	When was The Deccan Times founded?
Television broadcasting in Hyderabad began in 1974 with the launch of Doordarshan, the Government of India's public service broadcaster, which transmits two free-to-air terrestrial television channels and one satellite channel	When did Doordarshan begin broadcasting in Hyderabad?
"Public and private schools in Hyderabad are governed by the Central Board of Secondary Education and follow a ""10+2+3"" plan"	What entity controls the schools in Hyderabad?
There are 13 universities in Hyderabad: two private universities, two deemed universities, six state universities and three central universities	How many universities are in Hyderabad?
Hyderabad has five major medical schools—Osmania Medical College, Gandhi Medical College, Nizam's Institute of Medical Sciences, Deccan College of Medical Sciences and Shadan Institute of Medical Sciences—and many affiliated teaching hospitals	How many medical schools are in Hyderabad?
Hyderabad also has schools of fashion design including Raffles Millennium International, NIFT Hyderabad and Wigan and Leigh College	What type of school is Raffles Millennium International?
The most popular sports played in Hyderabad are cricket and association football	Two of the most popular sports played in Hyderabad include association football, what is the other?
During British rule, Secunderabad became a well-known sporting centre and many race courses, parade grounds and polo fields were built	At what time was Secunderabad an important sport center?
International-level sportspeople from Hyderabad include: cricketers Ghulam Ahmed, M	Ghulam Ahmed and Shivlal Yadav are what kind of sportsmen?
The most commonly used forms of medium distance transport in Hyderabad include government owned services such as light railways and buses, as well as privately operated taxis and auto rickshaws	What type of transport that is not government owned is commonly used in Hyderabad?
5 million vehicles operating in the city, of which 74% are two-wheelers, 15% cars and 3% three-wheelers	What percentage of the vehicles in Hyderabad were cars in 2012?
Hyderabad sits at the junction of three National Highways linking it to six other states: NH-7 runs 2,369 km from Varanasi, Uttar Pradesh, in the north to Kanyakumari, Tamil Nadu, in the south; NH-9, runs 841 km east-west between Machilipatnam, Andhra Pradesh, and Pune, Maharashtra; and the 280 km NH-163 links Hyderabad to Bhopalpatnam, Chhattisgarh NH-765 links Hyderabad to Srisailam	How many national highways form a junction in Hyderabad?
Santa Monica is a beachfront city in western Los Angeles County, California, United States	What type of city is Santa Monica?
Santa Monica was called Kecheek in the Tongva language	What did indigenous people that lived in Santa Monica call it previously?
Around the start of the 20th century, a growing population of Asian Americans lived in or near Santa Monica and Venice	What ethic group grew in the 20th century?
Donald Wills Douglas, Sr	Who built a plant in Clover field?
Douglas's business grew astronomically with the onset of World War II, employing as many as 44,000 people in 1943	What brought on the Douglas business's company growth?
It sits on the Santa Monica Pier, which was built in 1909	What year was the Sanat Monica Pier buildt?
The Downtown District is the home of the Third Street Promenade, a major outdoor pedestrian-only shopping district that stretches for three blocks between Wilshire Blvd	The Third Street Promenade is located in what part of Santa Monica?
Every fall the Santa Monica Chamber of Commerce hosts The Taste of Santa Monica on the Santa Monica Pier	What event does the Chamber of commerce host in the fall?
Classified as a Subtropical Mediterranean climate , Santa Monica enjoys an average of 310 days of sunshine a year	Roughly how many days of sunshine does Santa Monica get annually? 
The city first proposed its Sustainable City Plan in 1992 and in 1994, was one of the first cities in the nation to formally adopt a comprehensive sustainability plan, setting waste reduction and water conservation policies for both public and private sector through its Office of Sustainability and the Environment	In what two years were the first Sustainable City Plan's introduced?
An urban runoff facility , the first of its kind in the US, catches and treats 3	What is the name of the urban runoff facility?
The city is also in the process of implementing a 5-year and 20 year Bike Action Plan with a goal of attaining 14 to 35% bicycle transportation mode share by 2030 through the installation of enhanced bicycle infrastructure throughout the city	What year does the city plan on having a bicycle infrastructure?
1%) unmarried opposite-sex partnerships, and 416 (0	Roughly how many same-sex couples were there?
As of the census of 2000, there are 84,084 people, 44,497 households, and 16,775 families in the city	How many citizen's were in the year 2000 census?
Santa Monica College is a junior college originally founded in 1929	What year was the Santa Monica junior college founded?
Santa Monica has a bike action plan and recently launched a Bicycle sharing system in November 2015	What plan launched a Bicycle sharing system?
The Santa Monica Freeway begins in Santa Monica near the Pacific Ocean and heads east	What is the name of the Santa Monica Freeway?
It uses the right-of-way for the Santa Monica Air Line that provided electric-powered freight and passenger service between Los Angeles and Santa Monica beginning in the 1920s	Beginning in what decade did the Santa Monica Expo Air Line host freight and passenger services?
The majority of this was property crime, which affected 3	In 2006 what was crime mostly comprised of?
In 1999, there was a double homicide in the Westside Clothing store on Lincoln Boulevard	In what year was there a double homicide?
One of the oldest exterior shots in Santa Monica is Buster Keaton's Spite Marriage which shows much of 2nd Street	What is one of the oldest exterior shots in Santa Monica?
Santa Monica is featured in the video games True Crime: Streets of LA , Vampire: The Masquerade – Bloodlines , Grand Theft Auto San Andreas as a fictional district - Santa Maria Beach, Destroy All Humans	What type of games is Santa Monica featured in?
Founded in 1853, and named after George Washington, the university has students and faculty from all 50 U	When was Washington University founded?
Crow secured the university charter from the Missouri General Assembly in 1853, and Eliot was named President of the Board of Trustees	When did Washington University secure its charter?
"The board first approved ""Eliot Seminary,"" but William Eliot was uncomfortable with naming a university after himself and objected to the establishment of a seminary, which would implicitly be charged with teaching a religious faith"	What was one of the names that was initially considered for Washington University in St. Louis?
Although chartered as a university, for many years Washington University functioned primarily as a night school located on 17th Street and Washington Avenue in the heart of downtown St	Where was Washington University located? 
In 1867, the university opened the first private nonsectarian law school west of the Mississippi River	When was did Washington University open its law school?
By the 1890s, owing to the dramatic expansion of the Manual School and a new benefactor in Robert Brookings, the University began to move west	When did Washington University begin to expand west?
In 1899, the university opened a national design contest for the new campus	When did Washington University hold a national design contest for the new campus?
Louis in 1946 to serve as Washington University's ninth chancellor	What role did Arthur Holly Compton serve at Washington University?
The process of desegregation at Washington University began in 1947 with the School of Medicine and the School of Social Work	When did Washington University begin desegregation?
In 1957, planning began for the construction of the “South 40,” a complex of modern residential halls	When did Washington University begin construction of a complex of residential halls?
United States presidential election debates were held at the Washington University Athletic Complex in 1992, 2000, 2004, and 2016	What years were presidential debates held at Washington University?
"Although Chancellor Wrighton had noted after the 2004 debate that it would be ""improbable"" that the university will host another debate and was not eager to commit to the possibility, he subsequently changed his view and the university submitted a bid for the 2008 debates"	What was Chancellor Wrighton's initial sentiment to hosting another presidential debate at Washington University after 2004?
In 2013, Washington University received a record 30,117 applications for a freshman class of 1,500 with an acceptance rate of 13	How many freshman class applications did Washington University receive in 2013?
Graduate schools include the School of Medicine, currently ranked sixth in the nation, and the George Warren Brown School of Social Work, currently ranked first	What is the current national rank of the School of Medicine at Washington University?
The University acquired the building and adjacent property in 2004, formerly home to the Angelica Uniform Factory	When was the building and property for the north campus of Washington University acquired? 
6 km) to the west of the Danforth Campus in Clayton, Missouri, and primarily consists of a four-story former department store building housing mostly administrative space	Where is the West Campus of Washington University located?
Washington University obtained Tyson as surplus property from the federal government in 1963	When did Washington University acquire the property for Tyson Research Center?
Arts & Sciences at Washington University comprises three divisions: the College of Arts & Sciences, the Graduate School of Arts & Sciences, and University College in Arts & Sciences	How many divisions make up Arts & Sciences at Washington University?
Founded as the School of Commerce and Finance in 1917, the Olin Business School was named after entrepreneur John M	When was Olin Business School founded?
Olin has a network of more than 16,000 alumni worldwide	How many alumni does Olin Business School have worldwide?
Undergraduate BSBA students take 40–60% of their courses within the business school and are able to formally declare majors in eight areas: accounting, entrepreneurship, finance, healthcare management, marketing, managerial economics and strategy, organization and human resources, international business, and operations and supply chain management	How many majors are available to students in the business school at Washington University?
Washington University School of Law offers joint-degree programs with the Olin Business School, the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, the School of Medicine, and the School of Social Work	With what schools does the Washington University School of Law offer joint-degree programs? 
In the 2015 US News & World Report America's Best Graduate Schools, the law school is ranked 18th nationally, out of over 180 law schools	Where is the Washington University School of Law ranked in the 2015 US News & World Report America's Best Graduate Schools?
The Washington University School of Medicine, founded in 1891, is highly regarded as one of the world's leading centers for medical research and training	When was the Washington University School of Medicine founded?
With roots dating back to 1909 in the university's School of Social Economy, the George Warren Brown School of Social Work was founded in 1925	When was the George Warren Brown School of Social Work founded?
The library maintains subscriptions to over 450 academic journals	To how many academic journals does the Brown School Library subscribe?
The Mildred Lane Kemper Art Museum, established in 1881, is one of the oldest teaching museums in the country	When was the Mildred Lane Kemper Art Museum established?
Virtually all faculty members at Washington University engage in academic research, offering opportunities for both undergraduate and graduate students across the university's seven schools	How many schools does Washington University have?
The University has over 150 National Institutes of Health funded inventions, with many of them licensed to private companies	How many inventions does Washington University have funded by the National Institute of health? 
Washington University has over 300 undergraduate student organizations on campus	How many student organizations does Washington University have on campus?
Washington University has a large number of student-run musical groups on campus, including 12 official a cappella groups	How many a cappella groups does Washington University have?
Over 50% of undergraduate students live on campus	What percent of undergraduate students live on campus at Washington University?
Another group of residences, known as the Village, is located in the northwest corner of Danforth Campus	Where is the Village located at Washington University?
Washington University supports four major student-run media outlets	How many media outlets does Washington University support?
Washington University's sports teams are called the Bears	What is the name of the Washington University sports teams?
Unlike the Federal Bureau of Investigation , which is a domestic security service, CIA has no law enforcement function and is mainly focused on overseas intelligence gathering, with only limited domestic collection	What is the CIA's main focus?
The Executive Director is in charge of the day to day operation of the CIA, and each branch of the service has its own Director	Who is in charge of the day to day operation of the CIA?
The Directorate of Analysis produces all-source intelligence investigation on key foreign and intercontinental issues relating to powerful and sometimes anti-government sensitive topics	Who produces all source intelligence investigations?
The Directorate of Operations is responsible for collecting foreign intelligence, mainly from clandestine HUMINT sources, and covert action	What office is in charge of collecting foreign intelligence?
The CIA established its first training facility, the Office of Training and Education, in 1950	In what year did the CIA establish its first training facility?
"Under the Central Intelligence Agency Act of 1949, the Director of Central Intelligence is the only federal government employee who can spend ""un-vouchered"" government money"	What year was the Central Intelligence Agency Act created?
As a result, it was revealed that CIA's annual budget in Fiscal Year 1963 was US $550 million (inflation-adjusted US$ 4	What was the first year the CIA's budget was disclosed?
The role and functions of the CIA are roughly equivalent to those of the United Kingdom's Secret Intelligence Service , the Australian Secret Intelligence Service , the Egyptian General Intelligence Service, the Russian Foreign Intelligence Service , the Indian Research and Analysis Wing , the Pakistani Inter-Services Intelligence , the French foreign intelligence service Direction Générale de la Sécurité Extérieure and Israel's Mossad	What is the UK's equivalent to the CIA?
IC to other foreign intelligence agencies are to Anglophone countries: Australia, Canada, New Zealand, and the United Kingdom	Which four countries can share communications with the U.S. IC?
The success of the British Commandos during World War II prompted U	Who's secret intelligence service was the US's modeled after?
Lawrence Houston, head counsel of the SSU, CIG, and, later CIA, was a principle draftsman of the National Security Act of 1947 which dissolved the NIA and the CIG, and established both the National Security Council and the Central Intelligence Agency	Which act got rid of the NIA and the CIG?
On 21 August 1950, shortly after the invasion of South Korea, Truman announced Walter Bedell Smith as the new Director of the CIA to correct what was seen as a grave failure of Intelligence	Who was appointed to be the new Director of the CIA in 1950?
Truman wanted a centralized group to organize the information that reached him, the Department of Defense wanted military intelligence and covert action, and the State Department wanted to create global political change favorable to the US	Who wanted the CIA to have a central group that organized information for him?
US army general Hoyt Vandenberg, the CIG's second director, created the Office of Special Operations , as well as the Office of Reports and Estimates 	Who created the Office of Special Operations?
"On 18 June 1948, the National Security Council issued Directive 10/2 calling for covert action against the USSR, and granting the authority to carry out covert operations against ""hostile foreign states or groups"" that could, if needed, be denied by the U"	Directive 10/2 called for actions against who?
In particular, the agency failed to predict the Chinese entry into the Korean War with 300,000 troops	How many troops did the Chinese enter into the Korean War?
"Pain is a distressing feeling often caused by intense or damaging stimuli, such as stubbing a toe, burning a finger, putting alcohol on a cut, and bumping the ""funny bone"""	What type of stimuli causes pain?
Pain is the most common reason for physician consultation in most developed countries	What is the most common reason people go to the doctor in first world countries?
In 1994, responding to the need for a more useful system for describing chronic pain, the International Association for the Study of Pain classified pain according to specific characteristics: region of the body involved (e	What year did the IASP respond to the need to create a more useful system for describing pain?
Pain is usually transitory, lasting only until the noxious stimulus is removed or the underlying damage or pathology has healed, but some painful conditions, such as rheumatoid arthritis, peripheral neuropathy, cancer and idiopathic pain, may persist for years	What is usually temporary?
Nociceptive pain is caused by stimulation of peripheral nerve fibers that respond to stimuli approaching or exceeding harmful intensity , and may be classified according to the mode of noxious stimulation	Stimulating nociceptors will induce which type of pain?
"Nociceptive pain may also be divided into ""visceral"", ""deep somatic"" and ""superficial somatic"" pain"	What type of of pain is visceral a division of?
The prevalence of phantom pain in upper limb amputees is nearly 82%, and in lower limb amputees is 54%	What percentage of people who've had upper limbs amputated feel phantom pain?
Local anesthetic injections into the nerves or sensitive areas of the stump may relieve pain for days, weeks, or sometimes permanently, despite the drug wearing off in a matter of hours; and small injections of hypertonic saline into the soft tissue between vertebrae produces local pain that radiates into the phantom limb for ten minutes or so and may be followed by hours, weeks or even longer of partial or total relief from phantom pain	What happens when an anesthetic injection is directed into the nerves a limb stump?
Paraplegia, the loss of sensation and voluntary motor control after serious spinal cord damage, may be accompanied by girdle pain at the level of the spinal cord damage, visceral pain evoked by a filling bladder or bowel, or, in five to ten per cent of paraplegics, phantom body pain in areas of complete sensory loss	What is paraplegia?
People with long-term pain frequently display psychological disturbance, with elevated scores on the Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory scales of hysteria, depression and hypochondriasis 	When people have long-term pain, what do they frequently display?
Breakthrough pain is transitory acute pain that comes on suddenly and is not alleviated by the patient's normal pain management	What is the term for pain which is acute and note alleviated by normal pain management?
Although unpleasantness is an essential part of the IASP definition of pain, it is possible to induce a state described as intense pain devoid of unpleasantness in some patients, with morphine injection or psychosurgery	IASP's definition of pain includes what aspect as an essential part?
"A much smaller number of people are insensitive to pain due to an inborn abnormality of the nervous system, known as ""congenital insensitivity to pain"""	An abnormality of the nervous system can render a small number of people insensitive to what?
In 1644, René Descartes theorized that pain was a disturbance that passed down along nerve fibers until the disturbance reached the brain, a development that transformed the perception of pain from a spiritual, mystical experience to a physical, mechanical sensation	When was Descartes pontificating about his theories regarding pain?
In 1955, DC Sinclair and G Weddell developed peripheral pattern theory, based on a 1934 suggestion by John Paul Nafe	What year was peripheral pattern theory developed? 
"In 1968 Ronald Melzack and Kenneth Casey described pain in terms of its three dimensions: ""sensory-discriminative"" , ""affective-motivational"" , and ""cognitive-evaluative"" "	How many dimensions did Melzack and Casey describe pain in terms of?
"Wilhelm Erb's ""intensive"" theory, that a pain signal can be generated by intense enough stimulation of any sensory receptor, has been soundly disproved"	What type of signal can be generated by intense enough stimulation of any sensory receptor?
The pain signal travels from the periphery to the spinal cord along an A-delta or C fiber	How does the pain signal travel from the periphery to the spinal cord?
Spinal cord fibers dedicated to carrying A-delta fiber pain signals, and others that carry both A-delta and C fiber pain signals up the spinal cord to the thalamus in the brain have been identified	What are some spinal cord fibers exclusive to?
In his book, The Greatest Show on Earth: The Evidence for Evolution, biologist Richard Dawkins grapples with the question of why pain has to be so very painful	"Who wrote ""The Greatest Show on Earth: The Evidence for Evolution""?"
Differences in pain perception and tolerance thresholds are associated with, among other factors, ethnicity, genetics, and sex	Along with with ethnicity and genetics, what is the other factor associated with differences in pain perception?
A person's self-report is the most reliable measure of pain, with health care professionals tending to underestimate severity	What is the most reliable measure of pain?
The Multidimensional Pain Inventory is a questionnaire designed to assess the psychosocial state of a person with chronic pain	What is MPI an abbreviation for?
When a person is non-verbal and cannot self-report pain, observation becomes critical, and specific behaviors can be monitored as pain indicators	What become critical when a person is non-verbal? 
The experience of pain has many cultural dimensions	What does the experience of pain have throughout cultures?
Cultural barriers can also keep a person from telling someone they are in pain	What kind of barriers can prevent a person from telling someone they're in pain?
The International Association for the Study of Pain advocates that the relief of pain should be recognized as a human right, that chronic pain should be considered a disease in its own right, and that pain medicine should have the full status of a specialty	What does the IASP advocate that the relief of pain should be recognized as?
Sugar taken orally reduces the total crying time but not the duration of the first cry in newborns undergoing a painful procedure 	What, when taken orally, can reduce total crying time of newsborns undergoing a painful procedure?
A number of meta-analyses have found clinical hypnosis to be effective in controlling pain associated with diagnostic and surgical procedures in both adults and children, as well as pain associated with cancer and childbirth	Clinical hypnosis may be effective in doing what with pain associated with surgical procedures in adults and children?
Pain is the most common reason for people to use complementary and alternative medicine	What is the most common reason people seek out alternative medicine?
Physical pain is an important political topic in relation to various issues, including pain management policy, drug control, animal rights or animal welfare, torture, and pain compliance	What type of topic is physical pain important in relation to many issues?
The most reliable method for assessing pain in most humans is by asking a question: a person may report pain that cannot be detected by any known physiological measure	What is the most reliable method of learning about pain in a human?
The presence of pain in an animal cannot be known for certain, but it can be inferred through physical and behavioral reactions	What about pain in an animal isn't able to be known with certainty?
A database management system is a computer software application that interacts with the user, other applications, and the database itself to capture and analyze data	What does DBMS stand for?
"Access to these data is usually provided by a ""database management system"" consisting of an integrated set of computer software that allows users to interact with one or more databases and provides access to all of the data contained in the database "	How is data accessed?
Database servers are usually multiprocessor computers, with generous memory and RAID disk arrays used for stable storage	What is used to recover data if disks suffer a failure?
A DBMS has evolved into a complex software system and its development typically requires thousands of human years of development effort	How long can it take to create a DBMS?
Many other databases have application software that accesses the database on behalf of end-users, without exposing the DBMS interface directly	How are many databases accessed?
Codd, departed from this tradition by insisting that applications should search for data by content, rather than by following links	Instead of using links, how was information found in a relational model?
As computers grew in speed and capability, a number of general-purpose database systems emerged; by the mid-1960s a number of such systems had come into commercial use	When were DBMSs first used commercially?
IBM also had their own DBMS in 1966, known as Information Management System 	What was the DBMS created by IBM called?
"Instead of records being stored in some sort of linked list of free-form records as in CODASYL, Codd's idea was to use a ""table"" of fixed-length records, with each table used for a different type of entity"	Who proposed using a table to store data?
The relational model also allowed the content of the database to evolve without constant rewriting of links and pointers	How was the relational model able to improve over time?
For instance, a common use of a database system is to track information about users, their name, login information, various addresses and phone numbers	How is a database system frequently used?
"In the relational model, some bit of information was used as a ""key"", uniquely defining a particular record"	How is information accessed in a relational model?
Just as the navigational approach would require programs to loop in order to collect records, the relational approach would require loops to collect information about any one record	How does a program collect information using a navigational system?
Codd's paper was picked up by two people at Berkeley, Eugene Wong and Michael Stonebraker	Who used Codd's paper at Berkeley to improve a geographical database?
Another approach to hardware support for database management was ICL's CAFS accelerator, a hardware disk controller with programmable search capabilities	What is a CAFS accelerator?
IBM started working on a prototype system loosely based on Codd's concepts as System R in the early 1970s	What is the system IBM created using Codd's research?
The dBASE product was lightweight and easy for any computer user to understand out of the box	Why was dBASE successful?
The 1990s, along with a rise in object-oriented programming, saw a growth in how data in various databases were handled	In the 1990s, what type of programming changed the handling of databases?
 XML databases are a type of structured document-oriented database that allows querying based on XML document attributes	What kind of database is XML?
In recent years there was a high demand for massively distributed databases with high partition tolerance but according to the CAP theorem it is impossible for a distributed system to simultaneously provide consistency, availability and partition tolerance guarantees	What explains the difficulty in a system containing availability, consistency, and partition tolerance guarantees?
The first task of a database designer is to produce a conceptual data model that reflects the structure of the information to be held in the database	What should a conceptual data model do?
Having produced a conceptual data model that users are happy with, the next stage is to translate this into a schema that implements the relevant data structures within the database	In what form is the output of a logical database design?
The final stage of database design is to make the decisions that affect performance, scalability, recovery, security, and the like	What decisions must be made in the last stage of database design?
While there is typically only one conceptual and physical view of the data, there can be any number of different external views	How many conceptual or physical views of data are there?
The conceptual view provides a level of indirection between internal and external	What does the conceptual view offer?
Putting data into permanent storage is generally the responsibility of the database engine a	What is responsible for putting information into permanent storage?
, record types, specific records, data structures), certain computations over certain objects (e	What are examples of database objects?
Data security prevents unauthorized users from viewing or updating the database	What does data security avoid?
Database transactions can be used to introduce some level of fault tolerance and data integrity after recovery from a crash	What is a unit of work called in a database?
A database built with one DBMS is not portable to another DBMS (i	Can a DBMS be transfered to a different DBMS?
, cases when the database is found corrupted due to a software error, or if it has been updated with erroneous data)	Name a reason to take a database backward in time?
Static analysis techniques for software verification can be applied also in the scenario of query languages	How can static analysis be useful with query languages?
Tucson is the second-largest populated city in Arizona behind Phoenix, both of which anchor the Arizona Sun Corridor	What is the largest populated city in Arizona?
Tucson was probably first visited by Paleo-Indians, known to have been in southern Arizona about 12,000 years ago	What was Tuscon known as 12,000 years ago?
Hugo O'Conor, the founding father of the city of Tucson, Arizona authorized the construction of a military fort in that location, Presidio San Agustín del Tucsón, on August 20, 1775 	Who is considered the founding father of Tuscan?
7	How many miles was Mission San Xavier del Bac from Tuscon?
Arizona, south of the Gila River was legally bought from Mexico in the Gadsden Purchase on June 8, 1854	What was the date when Arizona was bought?
Brazelton was eventually tracked down and killed on Monday August 19, 1878, in a mesquite bosque along the Santa Cruz River 3 miles south of Tucson by Pima County Sheriff Charles A	What date did William Whitney Brazelton Die? 
In 2006 the population of Pima County, in which Tucson is located, passed one million while the City of Tucson's population was 535,000	What county is Tuscon located in?
The highest point in the area is Mount Wrightson, found in the Santa Rita Mountains at 9,453 ft above sea level	Which Mountain has the Highest point surrounding Tuscon?
Tucson is located 118 mi southeast of Phoenix and 60 mi north of the United States - Mexico border	How many miles is Tuscon from Phoenix?
I-19 runs south from Tucson toward Nogales and the U	Which interstate is the only one that uses kilometer posts instead of mileposts?
"Downtown is generally regarded as the area bordered by 17th Street to the south, I-10 to the west, and 6th Street to the north, and Toole Avenue and the Union Pacific railroad tracks, site of the historic train depot and ""Locomotive #1673"", built in 1900"	What was the Union Pacific once known as?
As one of the oldest parts of town, Central Tucson is anchored by the Broadway Village shopping center designed by local architect Josias Joesler at the intersection of Broadway Boulevard and Country Club Road	Which architect designed the Broadway Village shopping Center?
Tucson's largest park, Reid Park, is located in midtown and includes Reid Park Zoo and Hi Corbett Field	What is Tuscon's largest Park?
University Boulevard leads to the Fourth Avenue Shopping District	Where does E.University Blvd. lead to?
The population consists of about 83% Mexican-American and 10% Native American residents	What is the percentage of Native Americans in South Tuscon?
A combination of urban and suburban development, the West Side is generally defined as the area west of I-10	What interstate is the West side west of? 
"On Sentinel Peak , just west of downtown, there is a giant ""A"" in honor of the University of Arizona"	What else is Sentinel Peak also known as?
The Foothills area is generally defined as north of River Road, east of Oracle Road, and west of Sabino Creek	What is the Foothills west of?
Continental Ranch , Dove Mountain , and Rancho Vistoso are all masterplanned communities located in the Northwest, where thousands of residents live	How many residents live in the master-planned communities?
The community of Casas Adobes is also on the Northwest Side, with the distinction of being Tucson's first suburb, established in the late 1940s	What is considered Tuscon's first suburb?
East Tucson is relatively new compared to other parts of the city, developed between the 1950s and the 1970s, with developments such as Desert Palms Park	What park was developed between the 1950's and 1970's?
The sanitarium was then sold to Harvey Adkins in 1928	Who bought The sanitarium in 1928?
The Atterbury Wash with its access to excellent bird watching is also located in the Southeast Tucson area	Where is a great place to bird watch in Southeast Tuscon?
Near Summerhaven is the road to Ski Valley which hosts a ski lift, several runs, a giftshop, and nearby restaurant	What area has a ski lift?
Tucson has a desert climate , with two major seasons, summer and winter; plus three minor seasons: fall, spring, and the monsoon	What kind of climate is Tuscon?
"Arizona traffic code Title 28-910, the so-called ""Stupid Motorist Law"", was instituted in 1995 to discourage people from entering flooded roadways"	"What year did the ""Stupid Motorist Law"" come in effect?"
Daytime highs in the winter range between 64 and 75 °F , with overnight lows between 30 and 44 °F 	What are Tucson's typical winter high temperatures?
At the University of Arizona, where records have been kept since 1894, the record maximum temperature was 115 °F on June 19, 1960, and July 28, 1995, and the record minimum temperature was 6 °F on January 7, 1913	On what two occasions was Tucson's record high?
93 in in August 1955	In what month did Tucson get the most rain?
As of the census of 2010, there were 520,116 people, 229,762 households, and 112,455 families residing in the city	How many households are there in Tucson as of 2010?
Much of Tucson's economic development has been centered on the development of the University of Arizona, which is currently the second largest employer in the city	What is the second-largest employer in Tucson?
, Universal Avionics, Honeywell Aerospace, Sunquest Information Systems, Sanofi-Aventis, Ventana Medical Systems, Inc	What drug company has a major presence in Tucson?
Since 2009, the Tucson Festival of Books has been held annually over a two-day period in March at the University of Arizona	When did the Tucson Festival of Books begin?
For the past 25 years, the Tucson Folk Festival has taken place the first Saturday and Sunday of May in downtown Tucson's El Presidio Park	When is the Tucson Folk Festival held?
Another popular event held in February, which is early spring in Tucson, is the Fiesta de los Vaqueros, or rodeo week, founded by winter visitor, Leighton Kramer	What season is February in Tucson?
The Procession, held at sundown, consists of a non-motorized parade through downtown Tucson featuring many floats, sculptures, and memorials, in which the community is encouraged to participate	What time of day is The Procession?
The accomplished and awarded writers who have lived in Tucson include Edward Abbey, Erskine Caldwell, Barbara Kingsolver and David Foster Wallace	What famous writers have lived in Tucson?
"When rail service was established to the city on March 20, 1880, Leatherwood celebrated the fact by sending telegrams to various leaders, including the President of the United States and the Pope, announcing that the ""ancient and honorable pueblo"" of Tucson was now connected by rail to the outside world"	When did Tucson get a railroad?
The men's basketball team, formerly coached by Hall of Fame head coach Lute Olson and currently coached by Sean Miller, has made 25 straight NCAA Tournaments and won the 1997 National Championship	How many times has the University of Arizona men's basketball team won NCAA tournaments?
The Sidewinders were sold in 2007 and moved to Reno, Nevada after the 2008 season	Where did the Tucson Sidewinders move to?
Tracks include Tucson Raceway Park and Rillito Downs	Where does Tucson hold NASCAR races?
The League of American Bicyclists gave Tucson a gold rating for bicycle friendliness in late April 2007	Who said Tucson is bicycle-friendly, in 2007?
In general, Tucson and Pima County support the Democratic Party, as opposed the state's largest metropolitan area, Phoenix, which usually supports the Republican Party	Which political party does Tucson usually support?
Council members are nominated by their wards via a ward-level primary held in September	When is Tucson's city council primary?
Since 1985, both mayoral and council candidates have been eligible to receive matching public funds from the city	When did Tucson begin offering city council candidates public funding?
Tucson has one daily newspaper, the morning Arizona Daily Star	What is Tucson's daily general newspaper?
It is limited to the three counties of southeastern Arizona The major television networks serving Tucson are: KVOA 4 , KGUN 9 , KMSB-TV 11 , KOLD-TV 13 , KTTU 18 and KWBA 58 	What is Tucson's NBC station?
Tucson's primary electrical power source is a coal and natural gas power-plant managed by Tucson Electric Power that is situated within the city limits on the south-western boundary of Davis-Monthan Air-force base adjacent to Interstate-10	Who runs Tucson's main power plant?
The primary consumer of water is Agriculture , which consumes about 69% of all water	How is most of Tucson's water used?
In an effort to conserve water, Tucson is recharging groundwater supplies by running part of its share of CAP water into various open portions of local rivers to seep into their aquifer	How is Tucson replenishing its groundwater?
"An allocation from the Central Arizona Project Aqueduct , which passes more than 300 mi across the desert from the Colorado River, has been incorporated into the city's water supply, annually providing over 20 million gallons of ""recharged"" water which is pumped into the ground to replenish water pumped out"	What is the CAP?
Tucson's Sun Tran bus system serves greater Tucson with standard, express, regional shuttle, and on-demand shuttle bus service	What is Tucson's bus system called?
Cycling is popular in Tucson due to its flat terrain and dry climate	Why is cycling popular in Tucson?
Armenia is a unitary, multi-party, democratic nation-state with an ancient cultural heritage	What kind of government does Armenia have?
Between the 16th century and 19th century, the traditional Armenian homeland composed of Eastern Armenia and Western Armenia came under the rule of the Ottoman and successive Iranian empires, repeatedly ruled by either of the two over the centuries	Which two empires ruled Armenia between the 16 and 19th Century?
According to the histories of both Moses of Chorene and Michael Chamchian, Armenia derives from the name of Aram, a lineal descendant of Hayk	What name did Armenia gain it's name from?
A large cuneiform lapidary inscription found in Yerevan established that the modern capital of Armenia was founded in the summer of 782 BC by King Argishti I	When was the capital of Armenia established?
The kingdom became fully sovereign from the sphere of influence of the Seleucid Empire in 190 BC under King Artaxias I and begun the rule of the Artaxiad dynasty	Under who did Areminia become fully sovereign?
In the next centuries, Armenia was in the Persian Empire's sphere of influence during the reign of Tiridates I, the founder of the Arsacid dynasty of Armenia, which itself was a branch of the eponymous Arsacid dynasty of Parthia	Who established the Arsacid dynasty of Armenia?
After the Marzpanate period , Armenia emerged as the Emirate of Armenia, an autonomous principality within the Arabic Empire, reuniting Armenian lands previously taken by the Byzantine Empire as well	When was the Marzpanate era?
In 1045, the Byzantine Empire conquered Bagratid Armenia	Who vanquished Bagratid Armenia?
In the early 12th century, Armenian princes of the Zakarid noble family drove out the Seljuk Turks and established a semi-independent Armenian principality in Northern and Eastern Armenia, known as Zakarid Armenia, which lasted under the patronage of the Georgian Kingdom	Which family overthrew the Seljuk Turks?
In the 16th century, the Ottoman Empire and Safavid Empire divided Armenia	Which empires seperated Armenia?
When they began pushing for more rights within the Ottoman Empire, Sultan ‘Abdu’l-Hamid II, in response, organized state-sponsored massacres against the Armenians between 1894 and 1896, resulting in an estimated death toll of 80,000 to 300,000 people	How many Armenians were slaughtered between 1894-1896
During the 1890s, the Armenian Revolutionary Federation, commonly known as Dashnaktsutyun, became active within the Ottoman Empire with the aim of unifying the various small groups in the empire that were advocating for reform and defending Armenian villages from massacres that were widespread in some of the Armenian-populated areas of the empire	What is another name for the Armenian Revolutionary Federation?
In April 1909, the Adana massacre occurred in the Adana Vilayet of the Ottoman Empire resulting in the deaths of as many as 20,000–30,000 Armenians	When did the Adana massacre take place?
When World War I broke out leading to confrontation between the Ottoman Empire and the Russian Empire in the Caucasus and Persian Campaigns, the new government in Istanbul began to look on the Armenians with distrust and suspicion	What instigated conflict between the Ottoman and Russian Empire?
The events of 1915 to 1917 are regarded by Armenians and the vast majority of Western historians to have been state-sponsored mass killings, or genocide	What do the Armenians see the events of 1915-1917 as?
Toynbee, an estimated 600,000 Armenians died during deportation from 1915–16)	How many Armenians died during the second phase of the Armenian Genocide between 1915-1916??
Although the Russian Caucasus Army of Imperial forces commanded by Nikolai Yudenich and Armenians in volunteer units and Armenian militia led by Andranik Ozanian and Tovmas Nazarbekian succeeded in gaining most of Ottoman Armenia during World War I, their gains were lost with the Bolshevik Revolution of 1917	Who was in charge of the Russian Caucasus Army of Imperial forces?
Signed between the Allied and Associated Powers and Ottoman Empire at Sèvres on 10 August 1920, the Treaty of Sèvres promised to maintain the existence of the Armenian republic and to attach the former territories of Ottoman Armenia to it	When was the Treaty of Sevres signed?
The violent conflict finally concluded with the Treaty of Alexandropol on 2 December 1920	When was the Treaty of Alexandropol sanctioned?
Armenia was annexed by Bolshevist Russia and along with Georgia and Azerbaijan, it was incorporated into the Soviet Union as part of the Transcaucasian SFSR on 4 March 1922	When was the Transcaucasian SFSR formed?
After the death of Vladimir Lenin, Joseph Stalin took the reins of power and began an era of renewed fear and terror for Armenians	Who succeeded Vladimir Lenin?
Fears decreased when Stalin died in 1953 and Nikita Khruschev emerged as the Soviet Union's new leader	Who succeeded Stalin?
About 484,000 Armenians lived in Azerbaijan in 1970	How man Armenians resided in Azerbaijan in 1970?
In May 1990, the New Armenian Army was established, serving as a defence force separate from the Soviet Red Army	What does NAA stand for?
Further firefights between Armenian militiamen and Soviet troops occurred in Sovetashen, near the capital and resulted in the deaths of over 26 people, mostly Armenians	Continued fighting transpired between the Armenians and Soviets in which city?
In 1993, Turkey joined the blockade against Armenia in support of Azerbaijan	When did Turkey decide to become part of the blockade against Armenia?
The Karabakh war ended after a Russian-brokered cease-fire was put in place in 1994	When did the Karabakh War end?
21 out of 7 	What is the lowest score on the Democracy Score scale?
Armenia presently maintains good relations with almost every country in the world, with two major exceptions being its immediate neighbours, Turkey and Azerbaijan	With who does Armenia have bad relations?
During the Nagorno-Karabakh War and citing it as the reason, Turkey illegally closed its land border with Armenia in 1993	When did Turkey close off its border with Armenia?
On 10 October 2009, Armenia and Turkey signed protocols on normalisation of relationships, which set a timetable for restoring diplomatic ties and reopening their joint border	When did Armenia and Turkey initiate an attempt to reopen their border?
At the request of the Armenian government, Russia maintains a military base in the northwestern Armenian city of Gyumri as a deterrent against Turkey	Russia has a military base in which city in Armenia?
A 2005 survey reported that 64% of Armenia's population would be in favor of joining the EU	How many of Armenias inhabitants approve of becoming part of the EU?
The Armenian Army, Air Force, Air Defence, and Border Guard comprise the four branches of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Armenia	What are the four branches of the Armenian Armed Forces?
Armenia is member of Collective Security Treaty Organisation along with Belarus, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Russia, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan	What does CSTO stand for?
As of 2007, Armenia includes 915 communities, of which 49 are considered urban and 866 are considered rural	How many hamaynkner does Armenia have?
Recently, the Intel Corporation agreed to open a research center in Armenia, in addition to other technology companies, signalling the growth of the technology industry in Armenia	What group is opening a research center in Armenia?
This increase in the importance of agriculture was attributable to food security needs of the population in the face of uncertainty during the first phases of transition and the collapse of the non-agricultural sectors of the economy in the early 1990s	Why did agriculture become so significant for Armenia's economy?
In addition, the effects of the 1988 Spitak earthquake, which killed more than 25,000 people and made 500,000 homeless, are still being felt	How many people died because of the Spitak earthquake?
The 1994 cease-fire in the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict has also helped the economy	What did Armenia declare a cease-fire to in 1994?
The International Monetary Fund , World Bank, European Bank for Reconstruction and Development , and other international financial institutions and foreign countries are extending considerable grants and loans	What does IMF stand for?
However, unemployment, which currently stands at around 15%, still remains a major problem due to the influx of thousands of refugees from the Karabakh conflict	What is the unemployment rate in Armenia?
In addition, 35% of eligible children attended preschools	What percent of Armenian children go to preschool?
In 1995 YSMI was renamed to YSMU and since 1989 it has been named after Mkhitar Heratsi, the famous medieval doctor	Who founded the Armenian Medical school in Cilician Armenia?
Nowadays the university is ranked among famous higher Medical Institutions and takes its honorable place in the World Directory of Medical Schools published by the WHO	Who is in charge of releasing the World Directory of Medical Schools?
Armenia also hosts a deployment of OLPC – One Laptopschool Per child XO laptop-tablet schools	What does OLPC stand for?
Instruments like the duduk, the dhol, the zurna, and the kanun are commonly found in Armenian folk music	What are some examples of Armenian folk music instruments?
"In the post-Genocide Armenian community of the United States, the so-called ""kef"" style Armenian dance music, using Armenian and Middle Eastern folk instruments and some western instruments, was popular"	What is kef?
"Richard Hagopian is perhaps the most famous artist of the traditional ""kef"" style and the Vosbikian Band was notable in the 1940s and 1950s for developing their own style of ""kef music"" heavily influenced by the popular American Big Band Jazz of the time"	Who is the most well know kef artist?
Other Armenian diasporans that rose to fame in classical or international music circles are world-renowned French-Armenian singer and composer Charles Aznavour, pianist Sahan Arzruni, prominent opera sopranos such as Hasmik Papian and more recently Isabel Bayrakdarian and Anna Kasyan	What type of musician is Sahan Arzruni?
Obsidian, which is found locally, is crafted into assortment of jewellery and ornamental objects	What is Obsidian used for?
The National Art Gallery in Yerevan has more than 16,000 works that date back to the Middle Ages, which indicate Armenia's rich tales and stories of the times	How many pieces can be found in the Yerevan National Art Gallery?
Being a landlocked country, water sports can only be practiced on lakes, notably Lake Sevan	Which lake is most popular for water sports in Armenia?
The first medal won by an Armenian in modern Olympic history was by Hrant Shahinyan , who won two golds and two silvers in gymnastics at the 1952 Summer Olympics in Helsinki	What Olympic Sport did Hrant Shahinyan compete in?
The most successful team was the FC Ararat Yerevan team of the 1970s who won the Soviet Cup in 1973 and 1975 and the Soviet Top League in 1973	What team won the Soviet football Cup in 1973 and 1975?
The rebuilding of the regional schools was financed by the Armenian government	Who provided the funds to rebuild the Armenian sports schools?
Closely related to eastern and Mediterranean cuisine, various spices, vegetables, fish, and fruits combine to present unique dishes	What type of food is Armenian food most similair to?
Bacteria constitute a large domain of prokaryotic microorganisms	What is a large domain of prokaryotic microorganisms?
There are typically 40 million bacterial cells in a gram of soil and a million bacterial cells in a millilitre of fresh water	What amount of bacteria can be found in a gram of soil?
There are approximately ten times as many bacterial cells in the human flora as there are human cells in the body, with the largest number of the human flora being in the gut flora, and a large number on the skin	What is the ratio of human/bacteria cells in human flora?
Once regarded as plants constituting the class Schizomycetes, bacteria are now classified as prokaryotes	What living organisms are bacteria being reffered as?
The ancestors of modern bacteria were unicellular microorganisms that were the first forms of life to appear on Earth, about 4 billion years ago	When did the first antecedents of bacteria appear on Earth?
Bacteria display a wide diversity of shapes and sizes, called morphologies	What is the common name for shapes and forms of bacteria?
Most bacterial species are either spherical, called cocci (sing	What shape does usually cocci type of bacteria can be?
"Many bacterial species exist simply as single cells, others associate in characteristic patterns: Neisseria form diploids , Streptococcus form chains, and Staphylococcus group together in ""bunch of grapes"" clusters"	What is the usual form for Neiserria bacteria?
Bacteria often attach to surfaces and form dense aggregations called biofilms or bacterial mats	What does bacteria use to adhere to surfaces?
For example, when starved of amino acids, Myxobacteria detect surrounding cells in a process known as quorum sensing, migrate toward each other, and aggregate to form fruiting bodies up to 500 micrometres long and containing approximately 100,000 bacterial cells	What is the vital nutriment for Myxobacteria?
The bacterial cell is surrounded by a cell membrane 	What is a cell membrane?
Many important biochemical reactions, such as energy generation, use concentration gradients across membranes	What is crucial for biochemical reactions?
Bacteria do not have a membrane-bound nucleus, and their genetic material is typically a single circular DNA chromosome located in the cytoplasm in an irregularly shaped body called the nucleoid	What is genetic make of bacteria?
Some bacteria produce intracellular nutrient storage granules for later use, such as glycogen, polyphosphate, sulfur or polyhydroxyalkanoates	What types of intracellar nutrient can bacteria produce?
The cell membrane and cell wall comprise the cell envelope	What composes the cell envelope?
Gram-positive bacteria possess a thick cell wall containing many layers of peptidoglycan and teichoic acids	What does gram-positive bacteria have?
The high mycolic acid content of Mycobacteria, is responsible for the staining pattern of poor absorption followed by high retention	What helps Mycobacteria be resistant to decolorization?
Fimbriae are fine filaments of protein, usually 2–10 nanometres in diameter and up to several micrometers in length	What are fimbriae?
Certain genera of Gram-positive bacteria, such as Bacillus, Clostridium, Sporohalobacter, Anaerobacter, and Heliobacterium, can form highly resistant, dormant structures called endospores	What are highly resistant dormant structures of certain gram-positive bacteria called?
Endospores show no detectable metabolism and can survive extreme physical and chemical stresses, such as high levels of UV light, gamma radiation, detergents, disinfectants, heat, freezing, pressure, and desiccation	Is there a metabolism in endospores?
The distribution of metabolic traits within a group of bacteria has traditionally been used to define their taxonomy, but these traits often do not correspond with modern genetic classifications	What is commonly used to determine taxonomy of bacteria?
Carbon metabolism in bacteria is either heterotrophic, where organic carbon compounds are used as carbon sources, or autotrophic, meaning that cellular carbon is obtained by fixing carbon dioxide	How does heterotrophic carbon metabolism occur?
Bacteria are further divided into lithotrophs that use inorganic electron donors and organotrophs that use organic compounds as electron donors	What do lithotrophs use ?
These processes are also important in biological responses to pollution; for example, sulfate-reducing bacteria are largely responsible for the production of the highly toxic forms of mercury in the environment	What is sulfate-reducing bacteria accountable for?
Common inorganic electron donors are hydrogen, carbon monoxide, ammonia , ferrous iron and other reduced metal ions, and several reduced sulfur compounds	What are hydrogen and carbon monoxide for Lithotrophic bacteria?
Regardless of the type of metabolic process they employ, the majority of bacteria are able to take in raw materials only in the form of relatively small molecules, which enter the cell by diffusion or through molecular channels in cell membranes	How can bacteria obtain raw materials from the environment?
Bacteria grow to a fixed size and then reproduce through binary fission, a form of asexual reproduction	How size and reproduction are linked in bacteria?
In the laboratory, bacteria are usually grown using solid or liquid media	In what environment are bacteria being cultivated in labs?
Most laboratory techniques for growing bacteria use high levels of nutrients to produce large amounts of cells cheaply and quickly	What is the simple way of producing large volume of bacteria cells?
Bacterial growth follows four phases	How many phase are in the growth of bacteria?
Most bacteria have a single circular chromosome that can range in size from only 160,000 base pairs in the endosymbiotic bacteria Candidatus Carsonella ruddii, to 12,200,000 base pairs in the soil-dwelling bacteria Sorangium cellulosum	What shape is chromosome of bacteria?
Bacteria, as asexual organisms, inherit identical copies of their parent's genes (i	What makes bacteria an asexual organism?
Transduction of bacterial genes by bacteriophage appears to be a consequence of infrequent errors during intracellular assembly of virus particles, rather than a bacterial adaptation	What is the aftermath of infrequent errors during intracellular assembly of virus particles?
Transformation, unlike transduction or conjugation, depends on numerous bacterial gene products that specifically interact to perform this complex process, and thus transformation is clearly a bacterial adaptation for DNA transfer	What does transformation of bacteria depends on?
In ordinary circumstances, transduction, conjugation, and transformation involve transfer of DNA between individual bacteria of the same species, but occasionally transfer may occur between individuals of different bacterial species and this may have significant consequences, such as the transfer of antibiotic resistance	Between what species do usually transduction, conjugation and transformation take place?
Bacteriophages are viruses that infect bacteria	What are Bacteriophages?
Bacterial species differ in the number and arrangement of flagella on their surface; some have a single flagellum , a flagellum at each end , clusters of flagella at the poles of the cell , while others have flagella distributed over the entire surface of the cell 	What is monotrichous?
Classification seeks to describe the diversity of bacterial species by naming and grouping organisms based on similarities	How can we classify the vast variety of bacterial species?
"The term ""bacteria"" was traditionally applied to all microscopic, single-cell prokaryotes"	"What would original term ""bacteria"" determine?"
The Gram stain, developed in 1884 by Hans Christian Gram, characterises bacteria based on the structural characteristics of their cell walls	What was developed by Hans Christian Gram?
As with bacterial classification, identification of bacteria is increasingly using molecular methods	What technique has becoming more popular in classification of bacteria?
Some species of bacteria kill and then consume other microorganisms, these species are called predatory bacteria	Why are certain bacteria called predatory?
Certain bacteria form close spatial associations that are essential for their survival	What helps bacteria to survive?
In soil, microorganisms that reside in the rhizosphere carry out nitrogen fixation, converting nitrogen gas to nitrogenous compounds	Where do bacteria stay in soil?
If bacteria form a parasitic association with other organisms, they are classed as pathogens	What are the pathogenes?
Each species of pathogen has a characteristic spectrum of interactions with its human hosts	How pathogenes interact with it's human host?
Bacterial infections may be treated with antibiotics, which are classified as bacteriocidal if they kill bacteria, or bacteriostatic if they just prevent bacterial growth	What type of antibiotics called bacterocidal?
The ability of bacteria to degrade a variety of organic compounds is remarkable and has been used in waste processing and bioremediation	What quality of bacteria is being widely used re-cyling?
Because of their ability to quickly grow and the relative ease with which they can be manipulated, bacteria are the workhorses for the fields of molecular biology, genetics and biochemistry	What sciences use bacteria?
Bacteria were first observed by the Dutch microscopist Antonie van Leeuwenhoek in 1676, using a single-lens microscope of his own design	When was the first time bacteria were observed?
In 1910, Paul Ehrlich developed the first antibiotic, by changing dyes that selectively stained Treponema pallidum — the spirochaete that causes syphilis — into compounds that selectively killed the pathogen	When was the first antibiotic discovered?
When the board has no embedded components it is more correctly called a printed wiring board or etched wiring board	What's the more appropriate, but mostly unused, name for a printed circuit board when it doesn't have embedded components?
Initially PCBs were designed manually by creating a photomask on a clear mylar sheet, usually at two or four times the true size	What did PCB designers used to employ on a mylar sheet?
Panelization is a procedure whereby a number of PCBs are grouped for manufacturing onto a larger board - the panel	What process groups PCBs before transfer to a panel?
The panel is eventually broken apart into individual PCBs; this is called depaneling	What is the process called whereby the individual PCBs are separated?
In additive methods the pattern is electroplated onto a bare substrate using a complex process	Do additive or subtractive methods use less raw materials?
(Unlike a subtractive process mask, this mask exposes those parts of the substrate that will eventually become the traces	In the semi-additive process, what do the areas exposed by the mask become at the end?
The simplest method, used for small-scale production and often by hobbyists, is immersion etching, in which the board is submerged in etching solution such as ferric chloride	What non-professionals might use immersion etching, since it's the easiest way to make a PCB?
For example, a four-layer PCB can be fabricated by starting from a two-sided copper-clad laminate, etch the circuitry on both sides, then laminate to the top and bottom pre-preg and copper foil	If you started with a two-sided laminate etched on either side, laminated to the top and bottom, and processed it again to get traces on the outside layers, how many layers would your final PCB have?
Holes through a PCB are typically drilled with small-diameter drill bits made of solid coated tungsten carbide	What kind of drill bit do you need to drill holes in a PCB?
The hole walls for boards with two or more layers can be made conductive and then electroplated with copper to form plated-through holes	What do the hole walls in two-layer PCBs have to be before they can be electroplated?
The places to which components will be mounted are typically plated, because untreated bare copper oxidizes quickly, and therefore is not readily solderable	What happens to untreated copper that makes it difficult to solder?
Other platings used are OSP , immersion silver , immersion tin, electroless nickel with immersion gold coating , electroless nickel electroless palladium immersion gold and direct gold plating 	What does OSP stand for?
Electrochemical migration is the growth of conductive metal filaments on or in a printed circuit board under the influence of a DC voltage bias	What's the process whereby metal filaments are grown on or in a PCB via DC voltage?
Areas that should not be soldered may be covered with solder resist 	If part of a PCB isn't solderable, what can be used instead?
"Unpopulated boards are usually bare-board tested for ""shorts"" and ""opens"""	"What are bare-board tests looking for besides ""opens""?"
Often, through-hole and surface-mount construction must be combined in a single assembly because some required components are available only in surface-mount packages, while others are available only in through-hole packages	Surface-mount is one type of construction used in PCB assembly; what's the other one?
In boundary scan testing, test circuits integrated into various ICs on the board form temporary connections between the PCB traces to test that the ICs are mounted correctly	Do test circuits create permanent or temporary connections between traces?
PCBs intended for extreme environments often have a conformal coating, which is applied by dipping or spraying after the components have been soldered	If a PCB is intended for use in an setting with extreme conditions, what would probably be applied?
Many assembled PCBs are static sensitive, and therefore must be placed in antistatic bags during transport	What special protection are most PCBs shipped in?
Leads may be soldered either manually or by a wave soldering machine	If a lead wasn't soldered manually, what device was used?
Through-hole manufacture adds to board cost by requiring many holes to be drilled accurately, and limits the available routing area for signal traces on layers immediately below the top layer on multi-layer boards since the holes must pass through all layers to the opposite side	Which type of construction is more expensive?
Surface-mount technology emerged in the 1960s, gained momentum in the early 1980s and became widely used by the mid-1990s	When did surface-mount become a commonly used manufacturing process?
Each trace consists of a flat, narrow part of the copper foil that remains after etching	What process is a trace left over from?
The cloth or fiber material used, resin material, and the cloth to resin ratio determine the laminate's type designation (FR-4, CEM-1, G-10, etc	What element of a laminate is designated by the cloth to resin ratio, among other things?
Some of these dielectrics are polytetrafluoroethylene , FR-4, FR-1, CEM-1 or CEM-3	What's the common name of polytetrafluoroethylene?
The reinforcement type defines two major classes of materials - woven and non-woven	Along with the non-woven class, what makes up the reinforcement type materials?
At the glass transition temperature the resin in the composite softens and significantly increases thermal expansion; exceeding Tg then exerts mechanical overload on the board components - e	What's the temperature at which resin softens and expands called?
Moisture absorption occurs when the material is exposed to high humidity or water	What will happen to the materials when a board gets wet or is in a humid area?
The printed circuit board industry defines heavy copper as layers exceeding three ounces of copper, or approximately 0	"What's the minimum amount of copper a layer in a PCB can have to be considered ""heavy copper""?"
Since it was quite easy to stack interconnections inside the embedding matrix, the approach allowed designers to forget completely about the routing of wires : Anywhere the designer needs a connection, the machine will draw a wire in straight line from one location/pin to another	What arduous aspect of the process can designers skip in Multiwire?
Cordwood construction can save significant space and was often used with wire-ended components in applications where space was at a premium and in high-speed computers, where short traces were important	What type of construction is best for applications that need to portion space carefully?
In 1903, a German inventor, Albert Hanson, described flat foil conductors laminated to an insulating board, in multiple layers	Who was the German inventor who wrote in 1903 about conductors being laminated in layers to a board?
The Austrian engineer Paul Eisler invented the printed circuit as part of a radio set while working in England around 1936	What was Paul Eisler making when he came up with the printed circuit?
The Centralab Division of Globe Union submitted a proposal which met the requirements: a ceramic plate would be screenprinted with metallic paint for conductors and carbon material for resistors, with ceramic disc capacitors and subminiature vacuum tubes soldered in place	What company developed the first electronic circuit that could be mass produced and was durable enough to be fired from a gun?
This method of assembly is called through-hole construction	What type of construction was originally used for all electronic components?
Greek colonies and communities have been historically established on the shores of the Mediterranean Sea and Black Sea, but the Greek people have always been centered around the Aegean and Ionian seas, where the Greek language has been spoken since the Bronze Age	Where are Greek States believed to have been settled ?
The characteristically Greek representation of word-initial laryngeals by prothetic vowels is shared, for one, by the Armenian language, which also seems to share some other phonological and morphological peculiarities of Greek; this has led some linguists to propose a hypothetical closer relationship between Greek and Armenian, although evidence remains scant	What is commonly seen in the Greek language that is not a constant ?
Around 1200 BC, the Dorians, another Greek-speaking people, followed from Epirus	What group of people came with others who left the geographical and historical region in southeastern Europe, now a mutual region between Greece and Albania ?
The Greeks of classical antiquity idealized their Mycenaean ancestors and the Mycenaean period as a glorious era of heroes, closeness of the gods and material wealth	How did the Greeks look upon their forebears ?
The ethnogenesis of the Greek nation is linked to the development of Pan-Hellenism in the 8th century BC	What event is believed to be the ethnic basis of the Greeks society?
The classical period of Greek civilization covers a time spanning from the early 5th century BC to the death of Alexander the Great, in 323 BC 	The time span that is counted as the classical for the Greeks is from eras ?
In any case, Alexander's toppling of the Achaemenid Empire, after his victories at the battles of the Granicus, Issus and Gaugamela, and his advance as far as modern-day Pakistan and Tajikistan, provided an important outlet for Greek culture, via the creation of colonies and trade routes along the way	What Macedonian ruler helped to advance Greek beliefs and ways of life ?
This age saw the Greeks move towards larger cities and a reduction in the importance of the city-state	With the secession away from the smaller communities in the Grecian world, what living situation wasn't of great importance?
The spiritual revolution that took place, saw a waning of the old Greek religion, whose decline beginning in the 3rd century BC continued with the introduction of new religious movements from the East	When did the religions of the past begin to dissipate ?
From the early centuries of the Common Era, the Greeks identified as Romaioi , by that time the name ‘Hellenes’ denoted pagans	What alternative name were the Greeks known by ?
The Eastern Roman Empire – today conventionally named the Byzantine Empire, a name not in use during its own time – became increasingly influenced by Greek culture after the 7th century, when Emperor Heraclius decided to make Greek the empire's official language	When did the Byzantine Kingdom come under the impact of the Greeks. 
A distinct Greek political identity re-emerged in the 11th century in educated circles and became more forceful after the fall of Constantinople to the Crusaders of the Fourth Crusade in 1204, so that when the empire was revived in 1261, it became in many ways a Greek national state	What caused the resurface of the Grecian monotony in politics ?
Following the Fall of Constantinople on 29 May 1453, many Greeks sought better employment and education opportunities by leaving for the West, particularly Italy, Central Europe, Germany and Russia	When did the emperor Constantine lose rule over in 1453 ?
"For those that remained under the Ottoman Empire's millet system, religion was the defining characteristic of national groups , so the exonym ""Greeks"" was applied by the Ottomans to all members of the Orthodox Church, regardless of their language or ethnic origin"	How were the population factions of the Ottoman Empire classified ?
The roots of Greek success in the Ottoman Empire can be traced to the Greek tradition of education and commerce	What did the Greeks offer to the Ottoman Empire that was a superb benefit ? 
The relationship between ethnic Greek identity and Greek Orthodox religion continued after the creation of the Modern Greek state in 1830	When was the Greece that we know today officially formed ?
"Byzantine Greeks called themselves Romioi and considered themselves the political heirs of Rome, but at least by the 12th century a growing number of those educated, deemed themselves the heirs of ancient Greece as well, although for most of the Greek speakers, ""Hellene"" still meant pagan"	What do the Grecian Romioi descendants of the Constantine rule believe to be true in regards to the status as beneficiaries ?
Before the establishment of the Modern Greek state, the link between ancient and modern Greeks was emphasized by the scholars of Greek Enlightenment especially by Rigas Feraios	From what era is the Rigas Feraios believed to be a part of ?
In Greek mythology, Hellen, the patriarch of Hellenes, was son of Pyrrha and Deucalion, who ruled around Phthia, the only survivors after the great deluge	Who is this small group named for ?
") The word γραῖα graia ""old woman"" comes from the PIE root *ǵerh2-/*ǵreh2-, ""to grow old"" via Proto-Greek *gera-/grau-iu; the same root later gave γέρας geras , ""gift of honour"" in Mycenean Greek"	"What is the origins of the term ""old woman "" ?"
Homer uses the terms Achaeans and Danaans as a generic term for Greeks in Iliad, and they were probably a part of the Mycenean civilization	What interchangeable terms did Homer use in his poems for Greeks ?
In Homer's Iliad, the names Danaans and Argives are used to designate the Greek forces opposed to the Trojans	In Homer's poems who were the Greeks at odds with ?
The most obvious link between modern and ancient Greeks is their language, which has a documented tradition from at least the 14th century BC to the present day, albeit with a break during the Greek Dark Ages 	What is the easiest connection between the Greeks of old and those of today ?
Today, Greeks are the majority ethnic group in the Hellenic Republic, where they constitute 93% of the country's population, and the Republic of Cyprus where they make up 78% of the island's population 	In the Rupublic of Hellenic who is the ethnic majority and what percentage of the populace do they represent ?
Greeks from Cyprus have a similar history of emigration, usually to the English-speaking world because of the island's colonization by the British Empire	Which colonial enterprise for land was the Greek Isles a part of 
This effectively ended, though not entirely, the three-thousand-year-old presence of Hellenism in Asia Minor	"How long was there a Greek influence represented in ""little"" Asia ? "
The total number of Greeks living outside Greece and Cyprus today is a contentious issue	How many people that are of Greek ascendancy live elsewhere than Greece ?
In ancient times, the trading and colonizing activities of the Greek tribes and city states spread the Greek culture, religion and language around the Mediterranean and Black Sea basins, especially in Sicily and southern Italy , Spain, the south of France and the Black sea coasts	What helped to advance the Greek way of life beyond its boarders ?
During and after the Greek War of Independence, Greeks of the diaspora were important in establishing the fledgling state, raising funds and awareness abroad	After freedom was won by the Greeks who was of import to forming the rules ?
Greek culture has evolved over thousands of years, with its beginning in the Mycenaean civilization, continuing through the Classical period, the Roman and Eastern Roman periods and was profoundly affected by Christianity, which it in turn influenced and shaped	What is considered the start of the Grecian cultural world ?
Because of the movements of Philhellenism and the Diafotismos in the 19th century, which emphasized the modern Greeks' ancient heritage, these foreign influences were excluded from official use via the creation of Katharevousa, a somewhat artificial form of Greek purged of all foreign influence and words, as the official language of the Greek state	What radical political changes occurred during the 19th century ?
Modern Greek has, in addition to Standard Modern Greek or Dimotiki, a wide variety of dialects of varying levels of mutual intelligibility, including Cypriot, Pontic, Cappadocian, Griko and Tsakonian 	What is different about the use of Greek language today as opposed to the language of the past ?
Most Greeks are Christians, belonging to the Greek Orthodox Church	What is the religion of the Greek majority ?
Following the Renaissance in Europe, the humanist aesthetic and the high technical standards of Greek art inspired generations of European artists	What period in Europe was full of an appreciation for earlier cultures ?
Notable modern Greek artists include Renaissance painter Dominikos Theotokopoulos , Panagiotis Doxaras, Nikolaos Gyzis, Nikiphoros Lytras, Yannis Tsarouchis, Nikos Engonopoulos, Constantine Andreou, Jannis Kounellis, sculptors such as Leonidas Drosis, Georgios Bonanos, Yannoulis Chalepas and Joannis Avramidis, conductor Dimitri Mitropoulos, soprano Maria Callas, composers such as Mikis Theodorakis, Nikos Skalkottas, Iannis Xenakis, Manos Hatzidakis, Eleni Karaindrou, Yanni and Vangelis, one of the best-selling singers worldwide Nana Mouskouri and poets such as Kostis Palamas, Dionysios Solomos, Angelos Sikelianos and Yannis Ritsos	Who was one the most well known modern decorative modelers of the Greeks ?
The Greeks of the Classical era made several notable contributions to science and helped lay the foundations of several western scientific traditions, like philosophy, historiography and mathematics	What contribution to the scientific community have the Greeks left the world ?
As of 2007, Greece had the eighth highest percentage of tertiary enrollment in the world while Greeks of the Diaspora are equally active in the field of education	According to recent research who is enrolled in the Universities in Greece in higher number men or women ?
The most widely used symbol is the flag of Greece, which features nine equal horizontal stripes of blue alternating with white representing the nine syllables of the Greek national motto Eleftheria i thanatos , which was the motto of the Greek War of Independence	What are the representations of the Greek reference freedom or death that are held on a cloth symbol of the nation ?
Greek surnames were widely in use by the 9th century supplanting the ancient tradition of using the father’s name, however Greek surnames are most commonly patronymics	What names are used that are typically from a father and have usually added a suffix or prefix ?
This image is attested by the map of the Old Greek Diaspora, which corresponded to the Greek world until the creation of the Greek state in 1832	What is the name of the ancient map of the Greek world named ?
Notable Greek seafarers include people such as Pytheas of Marseilles, Scylax of Caryanda who sailed to Iberia and beyond, Nearchus, the 6th century merchant and later monk Cosmas Indicopleustes and the explorer of the Northwestern passage Juan de Fuca	Who was the well known sea vessel captain of the Greeks who sailed to Asia ?
The Greek shipping tradition recovered during Ottoman rule when a substantial merchant middle class developed, which played an important part in the Greek War of Independence	What was brought about by the Ottomans that caused and uplift in the classes of Greek society ?
In conclusion the hair colour of young Greeks are mostly brown, ranging from light to dark brown	What dominant hair color is to believed to be prevalent among Greeks 
During the Ottoman rule of Greece, a number of Greek enclaves around the Mediterranean were cut off from the core, notably in Southern Italy, the Caucasus, Syria and Egypt	During what period of domination were many Greeks unable to interact with it's central location ?
The Premier League is a corporation in which the 20 member clubs act as shareholders	How many club members are there?
The competition formed as the FA Premier League on 20 February 1992 following the decision of clubs in the Football League First Division to break away from the Football League, which was originally founded in 1888, and take advantage of a lucrative television rights deal	What date was the Premier League formed?
The Premier League is the most-watched football league in the world, broadcast in 212 territories to 643 million homes and a potential TV audience of 4	Is the Premier League the most watched football league in the world?
Despite significant European success during the 1970s and early 1980s, the late '80s had marked a low point for English football	When was the low point for English football?
However, by the turn of the 1990s the downward trend was starting to reverse; England had been successful in the 1990 FIFA World Cup, reaching the semi-finals	When did the downward trend of the English Football start to turn around?
"The 1988 negotiations were the first signs of a breakaway league; ten clubs threatened to leave and form a ""super league"", but were eventually persuaded to stay"	In 1988, how many clubs threateded to leave and form another league?
At the close of the 1991 season, a proposal was tabled for the establishment of a new league that would bring more money into the game overall	In 1991, was a proposal for a new league postponed?
Dyke believed that it would be more lucrative for LWT if only the larger clubs in the country were featured on national television and wanted to establish whether the clubs would be interested in a larger share of television rights money	Why did Dyke only want the larger clubs featured on national television?
In 1992, the First Division clubs resigned from the Football League en masse and on 27 May 1992 the FA Premier League was formed as a limited company working out of an office at the Football Association's then headquarters in Lancaster Gate	When did the First Division clubs resign from the Football League?
The league held its first season in 1992–93 and was originally composed of 22 clubs	When did the Premier League hold its first season?
"One significant feature of the Premier League in the mid-2000s was the dominance of the so-called ""Big Four"" clubs: Arsenal, Chelsea, Liverpool and Manchester United"	What was an important feature of the Premier League in the mid-2000s?
In the 2009–10 season, Tottenham finished fourth and became the first team to break the top four since Everton in 2005	Which team finished fourth in the 2009-10 season?
Due to insistence by the International Federation of Association Football , the international governing body of football, that domestic leagues reduce the number of games clubs played, the number of clubs was reduced to 20 in 1995 when four teams were relegated from the league and only two teams promoted	What was the number of clubs reduced to in 1995.
The current chairman is Sir Dave Richards, who was appointed in April 1999, and the chief executive is Richard Scudamore, appointed in November 1999	Who is the chairman of the FAPL and when was he appointed?
For the 2012–13 season the Premier League has 10 representatives in the Association: Arsenal, Aston Villa, Chelsea, Everton, Fulham, Liverpool, Manchester City, Manchester United, Newcastle United and Tottenham Hotspur	How many representatives does the Premier League have for the European Club Association for 2012-13?
During the course of a season each club plays the others twice , once at their home stadium and once at that of their opponents, for a total of 38 games	When does the Premier League have its playing season?
The team placed fifth in the Premier League automatically qualifies for the UEFA Europa League, and the sixth and seventh-placed teams can also qualify, depending on the winners of the two domestic cup competitions i	What will a fifth place Premier League team qualify for?
UEFA gave special dispensation for Liverpool to enter the Champions League, giving England five qualifiers	Which team did not qualifty for Champions League in 2005 but was able to particpate?
Between the 1992–93 season and the 2012–13 season, Premier League clubs had won the UEFA Champions League four times , behind Spain's La Liga with six wins, and Italy's Serie A with five wins, and ahead of, among others, Germany's Bundesliga with three wins 	How many times have Premier League teams have won the Champions League since 1992-2013?
In 2013–14, due to improved television revenues and cost controls, the Premier League had net profits in excess of £78 million, exceeding all other football leagues	What were some of the reasons for the increased revenues in 2013-14?
In 2012–13, Swansea qualified for the Europa League by winning the League Cup	Did Swansea qualify for the Europa Leaque in 2012-13?
The idea came closest to reality in 1998, when Wimbledon received Premier League approval to relocate to Dublin, Ireland, but the move was blocked by the Football Association of Ireland	Which team received permission to move to Dublin, Ireland in 1998?
The League's decision to assign broadcasting rights to BSkyB in 1992 was at the time a radical decision, but one that has paid off	Who received broadcasting rights to the Premier League in 1992?
This is in contrast to some other European Leagues, including La Liga, in which each club sells its rights individually, leading to a much higher share of the total income going to the top few clubs	Do European Leagues sell their television rights per a collective level?
The league brought in £320 million from the sale of its international rights for the three-year period from 2004–05 to 2006–07	How much many did the Premier League make from selling its internation rights during 2004-07?
The TV rights agreement between the Premier League and Sky has faced accusations of being a cartel, and a number of court cases have arisen as a result	Why has there been a several court cases against Sky and Premier League?
The BBC's highlights package on Saturday and Sunday nights, as well as other evenings when fixtures justify, will run until 2016	When will the BBC's weekend highlights package run out?
The Premier League is particularly popular in Asia, where it is the most widely distributed sports programme	What country is the Premier League the most distributed televised sports broadcast?
Premier League viewership has increased rapidly, with NBC and NBCSN averaging a record 479,000 viewers in the 2014–15 season, up 118% from 2012–13 when coverage still aired on Fox Soccer and ESPN/ESPN2 , and NBC Sports has been widely praised for its coverage	What was the average viewership in the United States during the 2014-15 season?
Owing in large part to the disparity in revenue from television rights between the leagues, many newly promoted teams have found it difficult to avoid relegation in their first season in the Premier League	Why has their been distance between the Premier League and the Football League?
"Though designed to help teams adjust to the loss of television revenues , critics maintain that the payments actually widen the gap between teams that have reached the Premier League and those that have not, leading to the common occurrence of teams ""bouncing back"" soon after their relegation"	What do critics have to say about this payment?
The Hillsborough disaster in 1989 and the subsequent Taylor Report saw a recommendation that standing terraces should be abolished; as a result all stadiums in the Premier League are all-seater	What did the Taylor Report recommend at the the Hillsborough disaster in 1989?
This record was then beaten in the 2013–14 season recording an average attendance of 36,695 with a total attendance of just under 14 million, the highest average in England's top flight since 1950	Attendance for the 2013-14 season set a new record of how much?
Managers are required to have a UEFA Pro Licence which is the final coaching qualification available, and follows the completion of the UEFA 'B' and 'A' Licences	What type of licence does a manager need?
At the inception of the Premier League in 1992–93, just eleven players named in the starting line-ups for the first round of matches hailed from outside of the United Kingdom or Ireland	At the beginning of the Premier League how many foreign players were there for the first round of games?
In response to concerns that clubs were increasingly passing over young English players in favour of foreign players, in 1999, the Home Office tightened its rules for granting work permits to players from countries outside of the European Union	Why did the Home Office change it rules regardin work permits in 1999?
As of the 2010–11 season, the Premier League introduced new rules mandating that each club must register a maximum 25-man squad of players aged over 21, with the squad list only allowed to be changed in transfer windows or in exceptional circumstances	What new rule was put into practice during the 2010-11 season?
The three highest transfer in the sport's history had a Premier League club on the selling end, with Tottenham Hotspur selling Gareth Bale to Real Madrid for £85 million in 2013, Manchester United's sale of Cristiano Ronaldo to Real Madrid for £80 million in 2009, and Liverpool selling Luis Suárez to Barcelona for £75 million in 2014	What was the transfer fee for Gareth Bale in 2013.
Former Blackburn Rovers and Newcastle United striker Alan Shearer holds the record for most Premier League goals with 260	Who has the record for most goals in the Premier League?
Two of the lions are found above the handles on either side of the trophy – the third is symbolised by the captain of the title winning team as he raises the trophy, and its gold crown, above his head at the end of the season	Where on the trophy can two of the lions be seen?
na]) was the period of ancient Roman civilization beginning with the overthrow of the Roman Kingdom, traditionally dated to 509 BC, and ending in 27 BC with the establishment of the Roman Empire	When did the Roman Republic begin?
Roman government was headed by two consuls, elected annually by the citizens and advised by a senate composed of appointed magistrates	Who elected consuls in the Roman government?
They argue that Rome's expansion was driven by short-term defensive and inter-state factors , and the new contingencies that these decisions created	What factor is considered by some to be the main driving force behind the expansion of Rome?
While there were exceptions to this , it was not until after the Second Punic War that these alliances started to harden into something more like an empire, at least in certain locations	After what war did the alliances start to solidify?
According to Polybius, who sought to trace how Rome came to dominate the Greek east in less than a century, this was mainly a matter of several Greek city-states seeking Roman protection against the Macedonian kingdom and Seleucid Empire in the face of destabilisation created by the weakening of Ptolemaic Egypt	What effect did the weakening of Ptolemaic Egypt have on nearby areas?
Historians see the growing Roman influence over the east, as with the west, as not a matter of intentional empire-building, but constant crisis management narrowly focused on short-term goals within a highly unstable, unpredictable, and inter-dependent network of alliances and dependencies	What was seen as the behind the Roman influence in the east?
Rome defeated Latin cities in the Battle of Lake Regillus in 496 BC, the Battle of Mons Algidus in 458 BC, the Battle of Corbione in 446 BC, the Battle of Aricia, and especially the Battle of the Cremera in 477 BC wherein it fought against the most important Etruscan city of Veii	In what battle did Rome claim victory over several Latin cities in?
The Romans met the Gauls in pitched battle at the Battle of Allia River around 390–387 BC	When did the Battle of Allia River approximately end?
After recovering surprisingly fast from the sack of Rome, the Romans immediately resumed their expansion within Italy	What country did the Romans continue to expand to after Rome was sacked?
Despite early victories, Pyrrhus found his position in Italy untenable	Who suffered a great amount of losses battling the Roman army?
The first few naval battles were disasters for Rome	What battles were initially complete disasters for Rome?
By this time Hannibal's brother Hasdrubal Barca sought to cross the Alps into Italy and join his brother with a second army	What was the name of Hannibal's family member that wanted to join his army in battle?
"Treaties had forbidden any war with Roman allies, and defense against robbing/pirates was considered as ""war action"": Rome decided to annihilate the city of Carthage"	What had prevented Carthage from defending their territory from pirates?
Rome's preoccupation with its war with Carthage provided an opportunity for Philip V of the kingdom of Macedonia, located in the north of the Greek peninsula, to attempt to extend his power westward	What kingdom sent an ambassador to Italy in an attempt to form an alliance against Rome?
"The Romans declared the ""Peace of the Greeks"", believing that Philip's defeat now meant that Greece would be stable"	What was declared by the Romans now that the Philip had been defeated?
The situation was made worse by the fact that Hannibal was now a chief military advisor to the Seleucid emperor, and the two were believed to be planning an outright conquest not just of Greece, but of Rome itself	Who had now been appointed as a military advisor to the emperor of Seleucid?
They even established a major garrison in Sicily in case the Seleucids ever got to Italy	Which town in Italy now housed a large Roman garrison?
In 179 BC Philip died	In what year did Philip pass away?
Convinced now that the Greeks would not have peace if left alone, Rome decided to establish its first permanent foothold in the Greek world, and divided the Kingdom of Macedonia into four client republics	How many republics was the Kingdom of Macedonia splintered into?
The Jugurthine War of 111–104 BC was fought between Rome and Jugurtha of the North African kingdom of Numidia	What war is considered to be the last Roman pacification in Northern Africa?
The Cimbrian War was a far more serious affair than the earlier clashes of 121 BC	When did the Cimbrian War end?
The extensive campaigning abroad by Roman generals, and the rewarding of soldiers with plunder on these campaigns, led to a general trend of soldiers becoming increasingly loyal to their generals rather than to the state	How were soldiers rewarded by Roman generals?
The third and final uprising was the most serious, involving ultimately between 120,000 and 150,000 slaves under the command of the gladiator Spartacus	How many slaves at most were under the command of Spartacus?
The internal unrest reached its most serious state, however, in the two civil wars that were caused by the clash between generals Gaius Marius and Lucius Cornelius Sulla starting from 88 BC	What type of war was caused by the clash of two generals?
Mithridates the Great was the ruler of Pontus, a large kingdom in Asia Minor , from 120 to 63 BC	Who was the leader of Pontus in the year 85 BC?
During his term as praetor in the Iberian Peninsula , Pompey's contemporary Julius Caesar defeated two local tribes in battle	Who held a term as praetor in the Iberian Peninsula?
In 53 BC, Crassus launched a Roman invasion of the Parthian Empire 	When was the invasion of the Parthian Empire begun?
By the spring of 49 BC, the hardened legions of Caesar crossed the river Rubicon, the legal boundary of Roman Italy beyond which no commander might bring his army, and swept down the Italian peninsula towards Rome, while Pompey ordered the abandonment of Rome	During what year did Caesar's armies cross the river Rubicon?
Caesar was now the primary figure of the Roman state, enforcing and entrenching his powers	Who was now considered to be the primary figure in the Roman state?
However, civil war flared again when the Second Triumvirate of Octavian, Lepidus and Mark Antony failed	What failure caused the the flares of civil war to spark up again?
The last king of the Roman Kingdom, Lucius Tarquinius Superbus, was overthrown in 509 BC by a group of noblemen led by Lucius Junius Brutus	Who was considered to be the last king of the Roman Kingdom?
In 494 BC, the city was at war with two neighboring tribes	In what year was the city in conflict with two nearby tribes?
Plebiscites of 342 BC placed limits on political offices; an individual could hold only one office at a time, and ten years must elapse between the end of his official term and his re-election	What year were limits placed upon plebeians that prevented them from holding more than one office concurrently?
Shortly before 312 BCE, the Plebeian Council enacted the Plebiscitum Ovinium	In what year was the Plebiscitum Ovinium initiative enacted?
By 287 BC, the economic condition of the average plebeian had become poor	What was the economic status of your typical plebeian in 287 BC?
The plebeians had finally achieved political equality with the patricians	Which group of people were now considered to be politically equal with the plebeians?
The senate was supreme during this era because the era was dominated by questions of foreign and military policy	Why was the senate considered to be supreme during this time?
The long military campaigns had forced citizens to leave their farms to fight, while their farms fell into disrepair	What had caused citizens to vacate their farms?
Tiberius Gracchus was elected tribune in 133 BC	To what position was Tiberius Gracchus elected?
Tiberius' brother Gaius was elected tribune in 123 BC	In what year was Gaius elected to office?
He was succeeded by two legitimate sons, Adherbal and Hiempsal, and an illegitimate son, Jugurtha	Who was the illegitimate offspring of the King Micipsa of Numidia?
Several years later, in 88 BC, a Roman army was sent to put down an emerging Asian power, king Mithridates of Pontus	In what year was a Roman army dispatched to terminate the King of Pontus?
During the period in which the populares party controlled the city, they flouted convention by re-electing Marius consul several times without observing the customary ten-year interval between offices	How many years was normal to span between offices prior to the populares controlling the city?
In 77 BC, the senate sent one of Sulla's former lieutenants, Gnaeus Pompeius Magnus , to put down an uprising in Spain	Where in the year 77 BC was an uprising?
Around 66 BC, a movement to use constitutional, or at least peaceful, means to address the plight of various classes began	When did the movement that considered the use of peaceful means to solve the plight of lesser classes begin?
Caesar would be elected consul in 59 BC, and would then serve as governor of Gaul for five years	In which year would Julius Caesar hope to be elected to the position of consul?
His colleague, Marcus Calpurnius Bibulus, was an extreme aristocrat	Who had tried to prevent the enactment of the laws that Caesar had proposed?
Clodius formed armed gangs that terrorised the city and eventually began to attack Pompey's followers, who in response funded counter-gangs formed by Titus Annius Milo	Who was responsible for the attacks on followers of Pompey?
This chaos reached a climax in January of 52 BC, when Clodius was murdered in a gang war by Milo	In which year did Clodius die?
Caesar held both the dictatorship and the tribunate, and alternated between the consulship and the proconsulship	In Rome during this time who was considered to hold both the dictatorship and the position of the tribunate?
Caesar was assassinated on March 15, 44 BC	On what date was Caesar killed?
After the assassination, Mark Antony formed an alliance with Caesar's adopted son and great-nephew, Gaius Octavian	Who was soon allied with Caesar's adopted son following his death?
As with most ancient civilizations, Rome's military served the triple purposes of securing its borders, exploiting peripheral areas through measures such as imposing tribute on conquered peoples, and maintaining internal order	Who in Rome was responsible for imposing tribute on nations that they had conquered?
Traditionally, the introduction of the phalanx formation into the Roman army is ascribed to the city's penultimate king, Servius Tullius 	Who introduced the phalanx formation into Rome's army?
One disadvantage of the phalanx was that it was only effective when fighting in large, open spaces, which left the Romans at a disadvantage when fighting in the hilly terrain of central Italian peninsula	What was a detriment of using the phalanx formation?
The heavy infantry of the maniples were supported by a number of light infantry and cavalry troops, typically 300 horsemen per manipular legion	How many horseman were likely to be found in a single manipular legion?
Rome's military confederation with the other peoples of the Italian peninsula meant that half of Rome's army was provided by the Socii, such as the Etruscans, Umbrians, Apulians, Campanians, Samnites, Lucani, Bruttii, and the various southern Greek cities	Where did Rome receive half of their army from?
During the 2nd century BC, Roman territory saw an overall decline in population, partially due to the huge losses incurred during various wars	During what century did Roman controlled areas see a decline in their populations?
In 107 BC, all citizens, regardless of their wealth or social class, were made eligible for entry into the Roman army	Who was now able to join military service in 107 BC?
The legion's main sub-unit was called a cohort and consisted of approximately 480 infantrymen	Around how many units could be expected to be contained within a cohort?
Under Caesar, an invasion fleet was assembled in the English Channel to allow the invasion of Britannia; under Pompey, a large fleet was raised in the Mediterranean Sea to clear the sea of Cilician pirates	In which sea was a large amount of naval vessels sent in order to remove Cilician pirates?
The senate's ultimate authority derived from the esteem and prestige of the senators	What was the general source of the Roman senate's authority?
The legal status of Roman citizenship was limited and was a vital prerequisite to possessing many important legal rights such as the right to trial and appeal, to marry, to vote, to hold office, to enter binding contracts, and to special tax exemptions	What was the main requirement of seeking a trial in the Roman courts?
The Comitia Centuriata was the assembly of the centuries (i	What Roman assembly elected both magistrates and censors?
the citizens of Rome), the Comitia Tributa, was presided over by a consul, and was composed of 35 tribes	How many tribes were considered to be in the Comitia Tributa?
Only the People of Rome had the right to confer these powers on any individual magistrate	Who had the right to grant powers to a magistrate?
In addition, once a magistrate's one-year term of office expired, he would have to wait ten years before serving in that office again	How long concurrently could an elected magistrate serve in office?
Consuls had supreme power in both civil and military matters	Which official had supremacy in both civil and military matters?
In times of military emergency, a dictator would be appointed for a term of six months	How long could a dictator be appointed for in times of certain emergencies?
The vast majority of the population lived in the city center, packed into apartment blocks	Where did the bulk of the cities populace live?
Rome has also had a tremendous impact on European cultures following it	What culture did Rome have an extreme amount of influence on?
It is estimated that over 25% of the Roman population was enslaved	Around what percentage of the Roman populace were thought to be slaves?
Men typically wore a toga, and women a stola	What article of clothing could generally be found on a male Roman?
The staple foods were generally consumed around 11 o'clock, and consisted of bread, lettuce, cheese, fruits, nuts, and cold meat left over from the dinner the night before	When were the staple foods in the Roman republic typically eaten at?
Wine was considered the basic drink, consumed at all meals and occasions by all classes and was quite inexpensive	What beverage was consumed by all the classes in the Roman Republic?
They began physical training to prepare the boys to grow as Roman citizens and for eventual recruitment into the army	How did Romans develop their male children as Roman citizens?
The native language of the Romans was Latin	What was the primary language of the Romans?
Roman literature was from its very inception influenced heavily by Greek authors	Who was responsible for massively affecting Roman literature?
Music was a major part of everyday life	What was considered to be dominant part of normal life?
Over time, Roman architecture was modified as their urban requirements changed, and the civil engineering and building construction technology became developed and refined	What was a primary cause of the modification of Roman architectural elements?
The city of Rome had a place called the Campus Martius , which was a sort of drill ground for Roman soldiers	What was the name of the area in which youth played and exercised?
However, the Roman religion commonly associated with the republic and early empire did not begin until around 500 BC, when Romans came in contact with Greek culture, and adopted many of the Greek religious beliefs	When did the Roman religion that is generally identified with the republic first established? 
However, it is more widely accepted that the Pacific War itself started in early December 1941, with the Sino-Japanese War then becoming part of it as a theater of the greater World War II	When do most people believe the Pacific War began?
The war culminated in the atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki, and other large aerial bomb attacks by the United States Army Air Forces, accompanied by the Soviet invasion of Manchuria on 8 August 1945, resulting in the Japanese announcement of intent to surrender on 15 August 1945	What events ended the war with Japan?
Japan used the name Greater East Asia War (大東亜戦争, Dai Tō-A Sensō	By what name was the war with Japan referred?
The Axis states which assisted Japan included the authoritarian government of Thailand in World War II, which quickly formed a temporary alliance with the Japanese in 1941, as the Japanese forces were already invading the peninsula of southern Thailand	What role did Thailand play in the war?
Government is that Thailand was not an ally of the Axis, and that the United States was not at war with Thailand	Did the U.S. believe that Thailand was an Axis ally?
Japan conscripted many soldiers from its colonies of Korea and Formosa 	Where did many of Japan's soldiers come from?
Mexico, Free France and many other countries also took part, especially forces from other British colonies	Did Mexico play a part in the war?
The Marco Polo Bridge Incident on 7 July 1937 provoked full-scale war between China and Japan	What incident occured on July 7, 1937?
In September 1940, Japan decided to cut China's only land line to the outside world by seizing Indochina, which was controlled at the time by Vichy France	Who controled Indochina in 1940?
After these victories, Chinese nationalist forces launched a large-scale counter-offensive in early 1940; however, due to its low military-industrial capacity, it was repulsed by Japanese army in late March 1940	Why did the Chinese ultimately fail in its counter offensives?
However, its policies of brutality toward the Chinese population, of not yielding any real power to these regimes, and of supporting several rival governments failed to make any of them a viable alternative to the Nationalist government led by Chiang Kai-shek	Who was the leader of the Nationalist government?
Japanese troop build ups in Hainan, Taiwan, and Haiphong were noted, Japanese Army officers were openly talking about an inevitable war, and Admiral Sankichi Takahashi was reported as saying a showdown with the United States was necessary	Which Japanese Admiral felt it was necessary to go to war with the U.S.?
In an effort to discourage Japanese militarism, Western powers including Australia, the United States, Britain, and the Dutch government in exile, which controlled the petroleum-rich Dutch East Indies, stopped selling oil, iron ore, and steel to Japan, denying it the raw materials needed to continue its activities in China and French Indochina	What did The West do to disuade Japan in China and French Indochina?
The Japanese leadership looked to base the conduct of the war against America on the historical experiences of the successful wars against China and Russia , in both of which a strong continental power was defeated by reaching limited military objectives, not by total conquest	What was Japan's strategic goal in attacking America?
Pacific Fleet, leaving eight American battleships out of action, 188 American aircraft destroyed, and 2,403 American citizens dead	How many U.S. battleships were incapacitated in the Pearl Harbor attacks?
Before the attack on Pearl Harbor, the 800,000-member America First Committee vehemently opposed any American intervention in the European conflict, even as America sold military aid to Britain and the Soviet Union through the Lend-Lease program	What program allowed America to sell military supplies to Britain and the Soviet Union?
Following the Declaration by United Nations on 1 January 1942, the Allied governments appointed the British General Sir Archibald Wavell to the American-British-Dutch-Australian Command , a supreme command for Allied forces in Southeast Asia	What date was the first official use of the term United Nations?
In January, Japan invaded Burma, the Dutch East Indies, New Guinea, the Solomon Islands and captured Manila, Kuala Lumpur and Rabaul	What islands did Japan invade?
In March 1942, Chinese Expeditionary Force started to attack Japanese forces in northern Burma	When did the Chinese attack Burma?
Two battle-hardened Australian divisions were steaming from the Mid-East for Singapore	How many Australian divisions steamed from the Mid-East for Singapore?
President Franklin Roosevelt ordered General Douglas MacArthur in the Philippines to formulate a Pacific defence plan with Australia in March 1942	Who ordered General MacArthur to make a defense plan with Australia?
The Pacific War Council was formed in Washington, on 1 April 1942, with President Franklin D	When was the Pacific War Council formed in Washingto D.C.?
The carrier USS Lexington under Admiral Fletcher joined USS Yorktown and an American-Australian task force to stop the Japanese advance	What American carrier joined the USS Yorktown to stop the Japanese attack on Port Moresby in 1942?
A Japanese force was sent north to attack the Aleutian Islands	In Yamamoto's plan, what northern islands were to be attacked?
As anticipated by Nimitz, the Japanese fleet arrived off Midway on 4 June and was spotted by PBY patrol aircraft	When did the Japanese fleet arrive off Midway?
With the Japanese CAP out of position and the carriers at their most vulnerable, SBD Dauntlesses from Enterprise and Yorktown appeared at an altitude of 10,000 feet and commenced their attack, quickly dealing fatal blows to three fleet carriers: Sōryū, Kaga, and Akagi	At what altitude did the American dive bombers commence their attck on the Japanese carriers?
From July 1942, a few Australian reserve battalions, many of them very young and untrained, fought a stubborn rearguard action in New Guinea, against a Japanese advance along the Kokoda Track, towards Port Moresby, over the rugged Owen Stanley Ranges	What mountains did the Australian battalions fight a rearguard action over on the Kokoda Track?
Most of the Japanese aircraft based in the South Pacific were redeployed to the defense of Guadalcanal	Where were most of the Japanese aircraft in the South Pacific redeployed to defend?
In mainland China, the Japanese 3rd, 6th, and 40th Divisions massed at Yueyang and advanced southward in three columns and crossed the Xinqiang River, and tried again to cross the Miluo River to reach Changsha	Where were the 40th, 3rd, and 6th divisions massed at in China?
In August 1943 the Allies formed a new South East Asia Command to take over strategic responsibilities for Burma and India from the British India Command, under Wavell	What Allied command replaced the British India Command in August, 1943?
The United States used the ensuing period to turn its vast industrial potential into increased numbers of ships, planes, and trained aircrew	What did the United States turn it's industry to in the two years folloing the Battle of Midway?
submarines, as well as some British and Dutch vessels, operating from bases at Cavite in the Philippines ; Fremantle and Brisbane, Australia; Pearl Harbor; Trincomalee, Ceylon; Midway; and later Guam, played a major role in defeating Japan, even though submarines made up a small proportion of the Allied navies—less than two percent in the case of the US Navy	What type of vessels were part of a major role in defeating Japan?
submarines accounted for 56% of the Japanese merchantmen sunk; mines or aircraft destroyed most of the rest	What percentage of Japanese merchantmen were sunk by U.S. submarines?
Within hours after the Pearl Harbor attack, in retribution against Japan, Roosevelt promulgated a new doctrine: unrestricted submarine warfare against Japan	What doctrine did Roosevelt give for submarines against Japan?
However, Imperial Japanese Navy (and pre-war U	What doctrine stated that only fleet battles could win naval campaigns?
Navy, by contrast, relied on commerce raiding from the outset	What did the US Navy rely on?
Thus, only in 1944 did the U	When did the US Navy begin to use it's submarines to maximum effect?
In mid-1944 Japan mobilized over 500,000 men and launched a massive operation across China under the code name Operation Ichi-Go, their largest offensive of World War II, with the goal of connecting Japanese-controlled territory in China and French Indochina and capturing airbases in southeastern China where American bombers were based	What was the code name for the mid-1944 offensive across China?
After the Allied setbacks in 1943, the South East Asia command prepared to launch offensives into Burma on several fronts	What command prepared offensives into Burma after the Allied setbacks in 1943?
The Japanese responded to the Allied attacks by launching an offensive of their own into India in the middle of March, across the mountainous and densely forested frontier	What month did the Japanese launch an offensive into India?
Once Mutaguchi's hopes for an early victory were thwarted, his troops, particularly those at Kohima, starved	What happened to Mutaguchi's troops?
Although the advance in the Arakan had been halted to release troops and aircraft for the Battle of Imphal, the Americans and Chinese had continued to advance in northern Burma, aided by the Chindits operating against the Japanese lines of communication	What battle was the advance in the Arakan halted to release troops for?
It was imperative for Japanese commanders to hold Saipan	What was it imperative for the Japanese to hold?
Over the previous month American destroyers had destroyed 17 of 25 submarines out of Ozawa's screening force	How many of Ozawa's submarines were sunk by American destroyers?
On the second day, U	On what day did U.S> planes located Ozawa's fleet?
The Battle of Leyte Gulf was arguably the largest naval battle in history and was the largest naval battle of World War II	What is argued to be the largest naval battle in history?
Sho-1 called for V	What was the namee of the plan where Ozawa's force would lure the U.S. 3rd Fleet away from Leyte?
"Kurita's ""Center Force"" consisted of five battleships, 12 cruisers and 13 destroyers"	"How many battleships were in Kurita's ""Center Force""?"
Nishimura's force consisted of two battleships, one cruiser and four destroyers	How many battleships were in Nishimura's force?
"Ozawa's ""Northern Force"" had four aircraft carriers, two obsolete battleships partly converted to carriers, three cruisers and nine destroyers"	"How many aircraft carriers were in Ozawa's ""Northern Force""?"
Kurita passed through San Bernardino Strait at 03:00 on 25 October and headed along the coast of Samar	When did Kurita pass through the San Bernardino Strait?
Sixth Army on Leyte against attack from the sea, broke the back of Japanese naval power and opened the way for an advance to the Ryukyu Islands in 1945	What were the Leyte beachheads of the U.S. Sixth Army secured from?
On 20 October 1944 the U	When did the U.S. Sixth Army land on the eastern shore of Leyte?
On 15 December 1944 landings against minimal resistance were made on the southern beaches of the island of Mindoro, a key location in the planned Lingayen Gulf operations, in support of major landings scheduled on Luzon	Landings were made on the beaches of what island on December 15, 1944?
Palawan Island, between Borneo and Mindoro, the fifth largest and western-most Philippine Island, was invaded on 28 February with landings of the Eighth Army at Puerto Princesa	What island was between Borneo and Mindoro?
The battle of Iwo Jima in February 1945 was one of the bloodiest battles fought by the Americans in the Pacific War	"What was ""Operation Detachment""?"
From early 1944 until the days leading up to the invasion, Kuribayashi transformed the island into a massive network of bunkers, hidden guns, and 11 mi of underground tunnels	How many miles of hidden tunnel were on the island?
Starting in mid-June 1944, Iwo Jima came under sustained aerial bombardment and naval artillery fire	When did Iwo Jima come under bombardment?
On 23 February, the 28th Marine Regiment reached the summit of Suribachi, prompting the now famous Raising the Flag on Iwo Jima picture	What marine regiment reached the summit of Mount Suribachi?
During April, Fourteenth Army advanced 300 miles south towards Rangoon, the capital and principal port of Burma, but was delayed by Japanese rearguards 40 miles north of Rangoon at the end of the month	What was the capital of Burma?
At one of the very worst sites, around Sandakan in Borneo, only six of some 2,500 British and Australian prisoners survived	How many British and Australian prisoners survived out of about 2500 around Sandakan?
By April 1945, China had already been at war with Japan for more than seven years	In 1945, how many years had Japan already been at war with China?
sought airbases for 3,000 B-29 bombers and 240 squadrons of B-17 bombers for the intense bombardment of Japan's home islands in preparation for a full-scale invasion in late 1945	How many B-29 bombers were airbases need for in Okinawa?
Of the 117,000 Japanese troops defending Okinawa, 94 percent died	What percent of Japanese troops died on Okinawa?
strategic bombing in the hemisphere, under United States Army Air Forces General Curtis LeMay	Who was over the new U.S. Strategic Air Forces in the Pacific command?
dropped an atomic bomb on the Japanese city of Hiroshima in the first nuclear attack in history	America dropped what on August 6, 1945?
The Manchurian Strategic Offensive Operation began on 9 August 1945, with the Soviet invasion of the Japanese puppet state of Manchukuo and was the last campaign of the Second World War and the largest of the 1945 Soviet–Japanese War which resumed hostilities between the Soviet Union and the Empire of Japan after almost six years of peace	When did the soviet Union invade Manchukuo?
"The effects of the ""Twin Shocks""—the Soviet entry and the atomic bombing—were profound"	How did the Japanese refer to the atomic bombings and the Soviet invasion?
In Japan, 14 August is considered to be the day that the Pacific War ended	What date does Japan consider the end of the Pacific War?
"A widely publicised example of institutionalised sexual slavery are ""comfort women"", a euphemism for the 200,000 women, mostly from Korea and China, who served in the Japanese army's camps during World War II"	How many women are believed to have been sexual slaves for the Japenese Army?
Australia had been shocked by the speedy collapse of British Malaya and Fall of Singapore in which around 15,000 Australian soldiers became prisoners of war	About how many Australians were taken prisoner after the fall of Singapore and British Malaya?
It is part of the San Diego–Tijuana conurbation, the second-largest transborder agglomeration between the US and a bordering country after Detroit–Windsor, with a population of 4,922,723 people	Which city in Mexico does San Diego border?
Upon landing in San Diego Bay in 1542, Juan Rodríguez Cabrillo claimed the entire area for Spain, forming the basis for the settlement of Alta California 200 years later	Who claimed the San Diego Bay area for Spain in 1542?
In November 1602, Sebastián Vizcaíno was sent to map the California coast	Who was sent to survey the California coast in 1602?
In July of the same year, Mission San Diego de Alcalá was founded by Franciscan friars under Junípero Serra	Who did Junipero Serra commission to found the Mission San Diego de Alcala in 1769?
The 432 residents of the town petitioned the governor to form a pueblo, and Juan María Osuna was elected the first alcalde , defeating Pío Pico in the vote	Who was elected as the Mission's first municipal magistrate?
In the ensuing Battle of San Pasqual, fought in the San Pasqual Valley which is now part of the city of San Diego, the Americans suffered their worst losses in the campaign	What battle took place in the San Pasqual Valley?
"Stockton and Kearny went on to recover Los Angeles and force the capitulation of Alta California with the ""Treaty of Cahuenga"" on January 13, 1847"	What treaty was used by Stockton and Kearny on January 1, 1847?
The state of California was admitted to the United States in 1850	In what year did San Diego officially become a city?
The location was not ideal, being several miles away from navigable water	What was the main flaw of San Diego's original location?
Both expositions were held in Balboa Park, and many of the Spanish/Baroque-style buildings that were built for those expositions remain to this day as central features of the park	What park in San Diego hosted two World Fairs near the beginning of the 20th century?
Over the next several decades the Army set up a series of coastal artillery batteries and named the area Fort Rosecrans	What names was given to coastal artillery batteries erected shortly after 1852?
The city's population grew rapidly during and after World War II, more than doubling between 1930 and 1950 	When did San Diego's population grow so rapidly that it nearly doubled?
"From the start of the 20th century through the 1970s, the American tuna fishing fleet and tuna canning industry were based in San Diego, ""the tuna capital of the world"""	What nickname was San Diego given by the tuna canning industry in the 1970s?
The San Diego River runs through the middle of San Diego from east to west, creating a river valley which serves to divide the city into northern and southern segments	In what direction does the San Diego River run through the city?
Point Loma occupies the peninsula across San Diego Bay from downtown	What community covers the area from Downtown San Diego to the peninsula?
The development of skyscrapers over 300 feet in San Diego is attributed to the construction of the El Cortez Hotel in 1927, the tallest building in the city from 1927 to 1963	What was the first skyscraper built in San Diego that was over 300-feet tall?
San Diego's climate is characterized by warm, dry summers and mild winters with most of the annual precipitation falling between December and March	When does San Diego receive most of its precipitation?
Even in the absence of June gloom, inland areas tend to experience much more significant temperature variations than coastal areas, where the ocean serves as a moderating influence	What areas experience the most significant temperature variations?
The months of December through March supply most of the rain, with February the only month averaging 2 inches or more of rain	What is the average rainfall in February along the coast?
The endangered Torrey pine has the bulk of its population in San Diego in a stretch of protected chaparral along the coast	What trees are protected along the coast of San Diego?
Because of its diversity of habitat and its position on the Pacific Flyway, San Diego County has recorded the presence of 492 bird species, more than any other region in the country	How many bird species have been observed in San Diego?
In October 2003, San Diego was the site of the Cedar Fire, which has been called the largest wildfire in California over the past century	When did California's largest wildfire of the century take place?
The urban area of San Diego extends beyond the administrative city limits and had a total population of 2,956,746, making it the third-largest urban area in the state, after that of the Los Angeles metropolitan area and San Francisco metropolitan area	In the top five largest urban areas in California, where does San Diego rank?
9% Asian (5	What ethnicity made up 15.9.% of San Diego's population in 2009?
3% from 2000	In what year was the household median income in San Diego at $45,733?
The San Diego County regional planning agency, SANDAG, provides tables and graphs breaking down the city population into 5-year age groups	What regional planning agency offers graphs and tables of census information for San Diego?
Nonetheless, San Diego was rated the fifth-best place to live in the United States in 2006 by Money magazine	What did Money magazine rate San Diego as being in 2006?
"Also, the local craft brewing industry attracts an increasing number of visitors for ""beer tours"" and the annual San Diego Beer Week in November; San Diego has been called ""America's Craft Beer Capital"	What type of tours attract a large number of visitors to San Diego?
San Diego hosts the busiest international border crossing in the world, in the San Ysidro neighborhood at the San Ysidro Port of Entry	Where is San Diego's border crossing?
San Diego has been designated as an iHub Innovation Center for collaboration potentially between wireless and life sciences	Why is San Diego known as an iHub Innovation Center?
The presence of the University of California, San Diego and other research institutions has helped to fuel biotechnology growth	What institution has contributed to the growth of fuel biotechnology?
The Museum of Contemporary Art San Diego is located in La Jolla and has a branch located at the Santa Fe Depot downtown	What museum has a branch at the Santa Fe Depot?
The San Diego Symphony at Symphony Towers performs on a regular basis and is directed by Jahja Ling	Who is the director of the San Diego Symphony? 
The annual Farmers Insurance Open golf tournament on the PGA Tour occurs at Torrey Pines Golf Course	What tournament used to be known as the Buick Invitational?
The change was brought about by a citywide vote in 2004	In what year did the city vote to change to a strong mayor government?
The mayor and city attorney are elected directly by the voters of the entire city	Who votes in the city's attorney and mayor?
"In 2005 two city council members, Ralph Inzunza and Deputy Mayor Michael Zucchet – who briefly took over as acting mayor when Murphy resigned – were convicted of extortion, wire fraud, and conspiracy to commit wire fraud for taking campaign contributions from a strip club owner and his associates, allegedly in exchange for trying to repeal the city's ""no touch"" laws at strip clubs"	What two members of city council were convicted of extortion in 2005?
In July 2013, three former supporters of Mayor Bob Filner asked him to resign because of allegations of repeated sexual harassment	Why was Mayor Bob Filner asked to resign?
Like most major cities, San Diego had a declining crime rate from 1990 to 2000	What happened to the crime rate in San Diego between 1990 and 2000?
San Diego's first television station was KFMB, which began broadcasting on May 16, 1949	Which television station began broadcasting on May 16, 1949?
and Mexican-licensed stations, San Diego is the largest media market in the United States that is legally unable to support a television station duopoly between two full-power stations under FCC regulations, which disallow duopolies in metropolitan areas with fewer than nine full-power television stations and require that there must be eight unique station owners that remain once a duopoly is formed 	How many duopolies does the Mexico side of San Diego-Tijuana have?
5, Free Radio San Diego 96	What is another name Free Radio San Diego is known by?
This includes Interstate 5, which runs south to Tijuana and north to Los Angeles; Interstate 8, which runs east to Imperial County and the Arizona Sun Corridor; Interstate 15, which runs northeast through the Inland Empire to Las Vegas and Salt Lake City; and Interstate 805, which splits from I-5 near the Mexican border and rejoins I-5 at Sorrento Valley	What major interstate runs from Tijuana to Los Angeles?
Major state highways include SR 94, which connects downtown with I-805, I-15 and East County; SR 163, which connects downtown with the northeast part of the city, intersects I-805 and merges with I-15 at Miramar; SR 52, which connects La Jolla with East County through Santee and SR 125; SR 56, which connects I-5 with I-15 through Carmel Valley and Rancho Peñasquitos; SR 75, which spans San Diego Bay as the San Diego-Coronado Bridge, and also passes through South San Diego as Palm Avenue; and SR 905, which connects I-5 and I-805 to the Otay Mesa Port of Entry	What highway connects the I-805 with the downtown area?
Testament to San Diego's cycling efforts, in 2006, San Diego was rated as the best city for cycling for U	In what year was San Diego rated as the country's best densely populated city for cycling?
The Trolley primarily serves downtown and surrounding urban communities, Mission Valley, east county, and coastal south bay	What areas of San Diego are primarily served by the trolley?
The city's primary commercial airport is the San Diego International Airport , also known as Lindbergh Field	What is the more popular name of Lindbergh Field?
"Freeway projects included expansion of Interstates 5 and 805 around ""The Merge,"" a rush-hour spot where the two freeways meet"	What is the name given to the highly congested spot where Interstates 5 and 805 meet?
Private colleges and universities in the city include University of San Diego , Point Loma Nazarene University , Alliant International University , National University, California International Business University , San Diego Christian College, John Paul the Great Catholic University, California College San Diego, Coleman University, University of Redlands School of Business, Design Institute of San Diego , Fashion Institute of Design & Merchandising's San Diego campus, NewSchool of Architecture and Design, Pacific Oaks College San Diego Campus, Chapman University's San Diego Campus, The Art Institute of California – San Diego, Platt College, Southern States University , UEI College, and Woodbury University School of Architecture's satellite campus	What is a college in San Francisco?
The term Muslim world, also known as Islamic world and the Ummah has different meanings	Islamic World is another way to refer to what?
The Islamic Golden Age coincided with the Middle Ages in the Muslim world, starting with the rise of Islam and establishment of the first Islamic state in 622	When did the Islamic Golden age start?
Between the 8th and 18th centuries, the use of glazed ceramics was prevalent in Islamic art, usually assuming the form of elaborate pottery	What type of ceramic art was popular from the 8th to the 18th century in the art of Islam?
The best known work of fiction from the Islamic world is One Thousand and One Nights Night) or *Arabian Nights, a name invented by early Western translators, which is a compilation of folk tales from Sanskrit, Persian, and later Arabian fables	What is the most widely known fictional work from the Islamic world?
A famous example of Arabic poetry and Persian poetry on romance is Layla and Majnun, dating back to the Umayyad era in the 7th century	Layla and Majnun is an example of what kind of poetry?
Ibn Tufail and Ibn al-Nafis were pioneers of the philosophical novel	What is another name for Ibn Tufail?
Theologus Autodidactus, written by the Arabian polymath Ibn al-Nafis , is the first example of a science fiction novel	What was the life span of Ibn al-Nafis?
A Latin translation of Ibn Tufail's work, Philosophus Autodidactus, first appeared in 1671, prepared by Edward Pococke the Younger, followed by an English translation by Simon Ockley in 1708, as well as German and Dutch translations	Which year did a translation of Philosophus Autodidactus in Latin come to be?
Dante Alighieri's Divine Comedy, derived features of and episodes about Bolgia from Arabic works on Islamic eschatology: the Hadith and the Kitab al-Miraj concerning the ascension to Heaven of Muhammad, and the spiritual writings of Ibn Arabi	In what year was Kitab al-Miraj likely translated into Latin?
The Persian scholar Ibn Sina had more than 450 books attributed to him	What was the life span of Ibn Sina?
Yet another influential philosopher who had an influence on modern philosophy was Ibn Tufail	Which philosopher from the Muslim world influenced modern philosophy?
Other influential Muslim philosophers include al-Jahiz, a pioneer in evolutionary thought; Ibn al-Haytham , a pioneer of phenomenology and the philosophy of science and a critic of Aristotelian natural philosophy and Aristotle's concept of place ; Al-Biruni, a critic of Aristotelian natural philosophy; Ibn Tufail and Ibn al-Nafis, pioneers of the philosophical novel; Shahab al-Din Suhrawardi, founder of Illuminationist philosophy; Fakhr al-Din al-Razi, a critic of Aristotelian logic and a pioneer of inductive logic; and Ibn Khaldun, a pioneer in the philosophy of history	Which philosopher of the Muslim world is considered an important author of work on evolution?
This led to an early scientific method being developed in the Muslim world, where progress in methodology was made, beginning with the experiments of Ibn al-Haytham on optics from circa 1000, in his Book of Optics	Ibn al-Haytham experimented with what around the year 1000?
Muslim physicians contributed to the field of medicine, including the subjects of anatomy and physiology: such as in the 15th century Persian work by Mansur ibn Muhammad ibn al-Faqih Ilyas entitled Tashrih al-badan which contained comprehensive diagrams of the body's structural, nervous and circulatory systems; or in the work of the Egyptian physician Ibn al-Nafis, who proposed the theory of pulmonary circulation	What work is Mansur ibn Muhammad ibn al-Faqih Ilyas known for writing?
In astronomy, Muḥammad ibn Jābir al-Ḥarrānī al-Battānī improved the precision of the measurement of the precession of the Earth's axis	What field did Muḥammad ibn Jābir al-Ḥarrānī al-Battānī contribute to?
Advances were made in irrigation and farming, using new technology such as the windmill	What was the windmill used for?
The industrial uses of watermills in the Islamic world date back to the 7th century, while horizontal-wheeled and vertical-wheeled water mills were both in widespread use since at least the 9th century	How early did people in the Muslim World start using watermills?
More than 20% of the world's population is Muslim	What percentage of the humans in the world are considered Muslim?
The two main denominations of Islam are the Sunni and Shia sects	Which Muslim denominations are the most dominant?
Some members such as Kuwait, Kazakhstan, Tajikistan and Turkmenistan have over 97% literacy rates, whereas literacy rates are the lowest in Mali, Afghanistan, Chad and parts of Africa	What is the literacy rate in Kuwait?
In Pakistan, establishment of the Higher Education Commission in 2002, resulted in a 5-fold increase in the number of PhDs and a 10-fold increase in the number of scientific research papers in 10 years with the total number of universities increasing from 115 in 2001 to over 400 in 2012	Which organization for scientific publications was established in Pakistan in 2002?
Perhaps the most important expression of Islamic art is architecture, particularly that of the mosque	What is considered the most important work of Islamic architecture?
No Islamic visual images or depictions of God are meant to exist because it is believed that such artistic depictions may lead to idolatry	Why is depicting God forbidden in the Islamic world?
Islamic art frequently adopts the use of geometrical floral or vegetal designs in a repetition known as arabesque	What is the repetitive use of geometric floral designs known as in Islamic art?
Distinguishing motifs of Islamic architecture have always been ordered repetition, radiating structures, and rhythmic, metric patterns	What are the main distinctive features of Islamic architecture?
The Solar Hijri calendar, also called the Shamsi Hijri calendar, and abbreviated as SH, is the official calendar of Iran and Afghanistan	What is another name for the Shamsi Hijri calender?
In a small minority of Muslim countries, the law requires women to cover either just legs, shoulders and head or the whole body apart from the face	How many Muslim nations require women to cover their legs, shoulders, or whole body?
It is bordered to the northwest by Armenia, the de facto Nagorno-Karabakh Republic, and Azerbaijan; to the north by Kazakhstan and Russia across the Caspian Sea; to the northeast by Turkmenistan; to the east by Afghanistan and Pakistan; to the south by the Persian Gulf and the Gulf of Oman; and to the west by Turkey and Iraq	Which country borders Iran to Iran's northwest?
Iran is home to one of the world's oldest civilizations, beginning with the formation of the Proto-Elamite and Elamite kingdoms in 3200–2800 BC	What civilizations formed in Iran during 3200-2800 BC?
In 633 AD, Rashidun Arabs invaded Iran and conquered it by 651 AD, largely converting Iranian people from their indigenous faiths of Manichaeism and Zoroastrianism to Sunni Islam	What year did the Rashidun Arabs invade Iran?
Tehran is the country's capital and largest city, as well as its leading cultural and economic center	What city is Iran's capital?
The term Iran derives directly from Middle Persian Ērān, first attested in a 3rd-century inscription at Rustam Relief, with the accompanying Parthian inscription using the term Aryān, in reference to Iranians	What century did terms referencing Iran begin to be recorded?
"Historically, Iran has been referred to as Persia by the West, due mainly to the writings of Greek historians who called Iran Persis , meaning ""land of the Persians"	Which historians referred to Iran as Persis?
In 1935, Reza Shah requested the international community to refer to the country by its native name, Iran	When did Reza Shan request that Iran officially be referred to as Iran and not Persia?
200,000–40,000 BC, have been found mainly in the Zagros region, at sites such as Warwasi and Yafteh Cave	What region of Iran did Neanderthal artifacts from the Middle Paleolithic Period were found?
The emergence of Susa as a city, as determined by radiocarbon dating, dates back to early 4,395 BC	What ancient city dates back as early as 4395 BC in Iran?
From the late 10th to late 7th centuries BC, the Iranian peoples, together with the pre-Iranian kingdoms, fell under the domination of the Assyrian Empire, based in northern Mesopotamia	Who dominated the area of Irea between the 10th Century BC to the late 7th Century BC?
In 550 BC, Cyrus the Great, son of Mandane and Cambyses I, took over the Median Empire, and founded the Achaemenid Empire by unifying other city states	Who founded the Achaemenid Empire when the city states in Iran came together in unification?
At its greatest extent, the Achaemenid Empire included the modern territories of Iran, Azerbaijan, Armenia, Georgia, Turkey, much of the Black Sea coastal regions, northeastern Greece and southern Bulgaria , northern Greece and Macedonia , Iraq, Syria, Lebanon, Jordan, Israel, Palestine, all significant ancient population centers of ancient Egypt as far west as Libya, Kuwait, northern Saudi Arabia, parts of the UAE and Oman, Pakistan, Afghanistan, and much of Central Asia, making it the first world government and the largest empire the world had yet seen	What was the first world goverment the world had seen at the time it existed?
In Greek history, the Achaemenid Empire is considered as the antagonist of the Greek city states, for the emancipation of slaves including the Jewish exiles in Babylon, building infrastructures such as road and postal systems, and the use of an official language, the Imperial Aramaic, throughout its territories	The Achaemenid Empire was the known enemy of what nation's histories during its existence?
In 334 BC, Alexander the Great invaded the Achaemenid Empire, defeating the last Achaemenid emperor, Darius III, at the Battle of Issus	Who invaded the Archaemenid Empire in 334BC?
The prolonged Byzantine-Sassanid Wars, most importantly the climactic Byzantine-Sassanid War of 602-628, as well as the social conflict within the Sassanid Empire, opened the way for an Arab invasion to Iran in the 7th century	What wars in the 600s CE lead to the weakening of Iran and a subsequent invasion by the Arabs?
The blossoming literature, philosophy, medicine, and art of Iran became major elements in the formation of a new age for the Iranian civilization, during the period known as the Islamic Golden Age	What period was known for an era where Iranian civilization blossomed and peaked?
The 10th century saw a mass migration of Turkic tribes from Central Asia into the Iranian plateau	What tribes migranted en masse to the Iranian plateau in the 10th Century?
Following the fracture of the Mongol Empire in 1256, Hulagu Khan, grandson of Genghis Khan, established the Ilkhanate in Iran	Who established an Ilkhanate in Iran after the break up of the Mongol Empire in 1256?
By the 1500s, Ismail I from Ardabil, established the Safavid Dynasty, with Tabriz as the capital	Who established the Safavid Dynasty?
The centuries-long geopolitical and ideological rivalry between Safavid Iran and the neighboring Ottoman Empire, led to numerous Ottoman–Persian Wars	What Empire neighbored and had a rivalry with Safavid Iran?
In 1729, Nader Shah, a chieftain and military genius from Khorasan, successfully drove out and conquered the Pashtun invaders	In what year were the Pashtuns defeated and driven out of Iran?
Another civil war ensued after the death of Karim Khan in 1779, out of which Aqa Mohammad Khan emerged, founding the Qajar Dynasty in 1794	Whose death in 1779 led to a civil war in Iran?
As a result of the 19th century Russo-Persian wars, the Russians took over the Caucasus, and Iran irrevocably lost control over its integral territories in the region , which got confirmed per the treaties of Gulistan and Turkmenchay	What wars resulted in Iran losing control of the Caucasus to the Russians?
Between 1872 and 1905, a series of protests took place in response to the sale of concessions to foreigners by Nasser od Din and Mozaffar od Din shahs of Qajar, and led to the Iranian Constitutional Revolution	When did a series of protests over foreign concessions sales in Iran occur?
The struggle related to the constitutional movement continued until 1911, when Mohammad Ali Shah was defeated and forced to abdicate	The constitutional movement in Iran lasted from 1906 until what year?
In 1941, Reza Shah was forced to abdicate in favor of his son, Mohammad Reza Pahlavi, and established the Persian Corridor, a massive supply route that would last until the end of the ongoing war	When was Reza Shah forced to abdicate in Iran?
Due to the 1973 spike in oil prices, the economy of Iran was flooded with foreign currency, which caused inflation	What year did oil price spikes in Iran lead to inflation?
The immediate nationwide uprisings against the new government began by the 1979 Kurdish rebellion with the Khuzestan uprisings, along with the uprisings in Sistan and Baluchestan Province and other areas	The new Iranian government following the Shah's downfall dealt with the Kurdish rebellion in what year?
On November 4, 1979, a group of students seized the United States Embassy and took the embassy with 52 personnel and citizens hostage, after the United States refused to return Mohammad Reza Pahlavi to Iran to face trial in the court of the new regime	When was the US Embassy in Iran seized?
On September 22, 1980, the Iraqi army invaded the Iranian Khuzestan, and the Iran–Iraq War began	Who invaded Iran in 1980?
Iran has an area of 1,648,195 km2 	What is the size of Iran?
It is one of the world's most mountainous countries, its landscape dominated by rugged mountain ranges that separate various basins or plateaux from one another	Iran's landscape is dominated by what geographical feature?
Iran's climate ranges from arid or semiarid, to subtropical along the Caspian coast and the northern forests	Iran's climate along its Capsian coast and northen forests is?
To the west, settlements in the Zagros basin experience lower temperatures, severe winters with below zero average daily temperatures and heavy snowfall	In Iran's western Zagros Basin, what are the average daily temperatures during winter?
At least 74 species of Iranian wildlife are on the red list of the International Union for the Conservation of Nature, a sign of serious threats against the country’s biodiversity	How many species of Iranian wildlife are listed by the IUCN as endangered?
Shiraz, with a population of around 1	What is the sixth most populous city of Iran?
The political system of the Islamic Republic is based on the 1979 Constitution, and comprises several intricately connected governing bodies	The Iranina Islamic Republic is based on what document?
The President is responsible for the implementation of the Constitution and for the exercise of executive powers, except for matters directly related to the Supreme Leader, who has the final say in all matters	In Iran, who has the final say in all matters directly related to the Supreme Leader?
The Guardian Council comprises twelve jurists including six appointed by the Supreme Leader	How many jurists are in the Guardian Council?
The Special Clerical Court handles crimes allegedly committed by clerics, although it has also taken on cases involving lay people	When crimes are committed by clerics, who handles the cases?
Since 2005, Iran's nuclear program has become the subject of contention with the international community following earlier quotes of Iranian leadership favoring the use of an atomic bomb against Iran's enemies and in particular Israel	Iran's nuclear program has caused discord within the international community since when?
Iran has a paramilitary, volunteer militia force within the IRGC, called the Basij, which includes about 90,000 full-time, active-duty uniformed members	What is Iran's volunteer militia force named?
The Fajr-3 is currently Iran's most advanced ballistic missile, it is a liquid fuel missile with an undisclosed range which was developed and produced domestically	What is Iran's most advanced missile?
As of 2007, Iran had earned $70 billion in foreign exchange reserves mostly from crude oil exports	By 2007, Iran's crude oil exports resulted in how much of its foreign exchange currency?
The administration continues to follow the market reform plans of the previous one and indicated that it will diversify Iran's oil-reliant economy	What is a main goal of Iran's market reform plans?
Sanctions have led to a steep fall in the value of the rial, and as of April 2013 one US dollar is worth 36,000 rial, compared with 16,000 in early 2012	How much was 1 US Dollar worth in Iranian Rials in early 2012?
Alongside the capital, the most popular tourist destinations are Isfahan, Mashhad and Shiraz	What does Teheran, Isfahan, Mashhad, and Shiraz have in common?
Iran has the second largest proved gas reserves in the world after Russia, with 33	What is Iran ranked in the world in proved gas reserves?
In 2004, a large share of natural gas reserves in Iran were untapped	When did Iran open its first wind-powered plants?
In 1960, Ali Javan co-invented the first gas laser, and fuzzy set theory was introduced by Lotfi Zadeh	Which Iranian scientist co-invented the first gas laser?
As with the spoken languages, the ethnic group composition also remains a point of debate, mainly regarding the largest and second largest ethnic groups, the Persians and Azerbaijanis, due to the lack of Iranian state censuses based on ethnicity	What is Iran's presumed largest ethnic group?
Christianity, Judaism, Zoroastrianism, and the Sunni branch of Islam are officially recognized by the government, and have reserved seats in the Iranian Parliament	What other branch of Islam is recognized by the Iranian government?
The earliest examples of visual representations in Iranian history are traced back to the bas-reliefs of Persepolis, c	What were the first known examples of Iranian visual art? 
The 1960s was a significant decade for Iranian cinema, with 25 commercial films produced annually on average throughout the early 60s, increasing to 65 by the end of the decade	What decade was significant to Iranian film?
by Khosrow Sinai and followed by many other directors, such as Abbas Kiarostami and Jafar Panahi	Which director led off a new age of Iranian film after the 1979 Revolution?
Iran received access to the Internet in 1993	When did the Internet arrive in Iran?
Herbs are frequently used along with fruits such as plums, pomegranates, quince, prunes, apricots, and raisins	In Iranian cuisine, what is habitually used with fruits? 
Other non-governmental estimations regarding the groups other than the Persians and Azerbaijanis roughly congruate with the World Factbook and the Library of Congress	Iran has the highest population of what group in the world?
According to FAO, Iran has been a top five producer of the following agricultural products in the world in 2012: apricots, cherries, sour cherries, cucumbers and gherkins, dates, eggplants, figs, pistachios, quinces, walnuts, and watermelons	What melon is Iran a Top 5 producer in the world in 2012?
The Median and Achaemenid empires left a significant classical art scene which remained as basic influences for the art of the later eras	The Achaemind Empire along with what other group became the foundation for the art in later Iranian history?
The British Isles are a group of islands off the north-western coast of continental Europe that consist of the islands of Great Britain, Ireland and over six thousand smaller isles	What is two islands that are part of the British Isles?
The oldest rocks in the group are in the north west of Scotland, Ireland and North Wales and are 2,700 million years old	What is the age of the oldest rocks in the north western part of Scotland?
Hiberni , Pictish and Britons tribes, all speaking Insular Celtic, inhabited the islands at the beginning of the 1st millennium AD	Which is one of the tribes that spoke Insular Celtic?
The term British Isles is controversial in Ireland, where there are objections to its usage due to the association of the word British with Ireland	Why is the name the British Isles disputed in Ireland?
The earliest known references to the islands as a group appeared in the writings of sea-farers from the ancient Greek colony of Massalia	Where did the first known occurrence of the British Isle name appear in written material?
The Greco-Egyptian scientist Claudius Ptolemy referred to the larger island as great Britain and to Ireland as little Britain in his work Almagest 	What did name did Claudius Ptolemy use for Ireland?
The earliest known use of the phrase Brytish Iles in the English language is dated 1577 in a work by John Dee	What is the earliest English usage of the term Brytish Illes?
488–444 Ma and early Silurian period, when the craton Baltica collided with the terrane Avalonia to form the mountains and hills in northern Britain and Ireland	What happened during the c. 488–444 Ma and early Silurian period?
The islands have been shaped by numerous glaciations during the Quaternary Period, the most recent being the Devensian	What was the most recent glaciation that has shaped the British Isles?
The Scottish Highlands in the northern part of Great Britain are mountainous, with Ben Nevis being the highest point on the islands at 1,343 m 	Where is the highest point in the British Isles?
Animal and plant life is similar to that of the northwestern European continent	Which continent has similar plant and animal life as the British Isles?
Clearing began around 6000 BC and accelerated in medieval times	When did the clearing of swamp land and forests begin in the British Isles?
Many larger animals, such as wolf, bear and the European elk are today extinct	Which two animals became extinct in the British Isles?
Only three snakes are native to Great Britain: the common European adder, the grass snake and the smooth snake; none are native to Ireland	Which snakes are considered native to the British Isles but not Ireland?
The demographics of the British Isles today are characterised by a generally high density of population in England, which accounts for almost 80% of the total population of the islands	Which area in the British Isles is s the most populated?
The population of England rose rapidly during the 19th and 20th centuries whereas the populations of Scotland and Wales have shown little increase during the 20th century, with the population of Scotland remaining unchanged since 1951	Which two areas in the British Isles hasn't experienced a large population growth in the last one hundred years?
The linguistic heritage of the British Isles is rich, with twelve languages from six groups across four branches of the Indo-European family	How many groups do these languages belong to?
At the end of the last ice age, what are now the British Isles were joined to the European mainland as a mass of land extending north west from the modern-day northern coastline of France, Belgium and the Netherlands	What mainland was the British Isles once connected to?
At the time of the Roman Empire, about two thousand years ago, various tribes, which spoke Celtic dialects of the Insular Celtic group, were inhabiting the islands	The people that lived in the British Isles during the Roman Empire era spoke which language?
Anglo-Saxons arrived as Roman power waned in the 5th century AD	Which people arrived in the British Isles when the Roman Empire's power was diminishing?
Viking invasions began in the 9th century, followed by more permanent settlements, particularly along the east coast of Ireland, the west coast of modern-day Scotland and the Isle of Man	When did Viking invasions begin in the British Isles?
By the Late Middle Ages, Great Britain was separated into the Kingdoms of England and Scotland	During the end of the Middle Ages which two kingdoms was Great Britain divided into?
In 1603, that changed when the King of Scotland inherited the Crown of England, and consequently the Crown of Ireland also	Which crown did the King of Scotland inherit in 1603?
The Kingdoms of England and Scotland were unified in 1707 creating the Kingdom of Great Britain	In what year was the Kingdom of Great Britain founded?
There are two sovereign states in the isles: Ireland and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland	What are the names of the two states that are sovereign in the British Isles today?
In addition to this, voters in Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland return members to a parliament in Edinburgh and to assemblies in Cardiff and Belfast respectively	Which state send members to the parliament in Edinburgh?
Ireland and the United Kingdom are both part of the European Union 	The United Kingdom is part of what union?
Exceptions to this are presidential elections and constitutional referendums in the Republic of Ireland, for which there is no comparable franchise in the other states	What are the two exceptions to the voting rights in United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Irelandand Britain?
The Northern Ireland Peace Process has led to a number of unusual arrangements between the Republic of Ireland, Northern Ireland and the United Kingdom	What has caused several uncommon arrangements between the various states in the United Kingdom?
Another body established under the Good Friday Agreement, the British–Irish Council, is made up of all of the states and territories of the British Isles	What was one of organizations that was founded because of the Good Friday Agreement?
The Council does not have executive powers but meets biannually to discuss issues of mutual importance	How often does the British-Irish Council meet?
The United Kingdom and Ireland have separate media, although British television, newspapers and magazines are widely available in Ireland, giving people in Ireland a high level of familiarity with cultural matters in the United Kingdom	What types of media give the people of Ireland information about what is going on in Britain?
Many globally popular sports had modern rules codified in the British Isles, including golf, association football, cricket, rugby, snooker and darts, as well as many minor sports such as croquet, bowls, pitch and putt, water polo and handball	What are some of the minor sports in the United Kingdom?
The idea of building a tunnel under the Irish Sea has been raised since 1895, when it was first investigated	The Irish Sea tunnel was first purposed in what year?
An image of an episkyros player depicted in low relief on a vase at the National Archaeological Museum of Athens appears on the UEFA European Championship Cup	What Museum has a vase with an image of an episkyros player?
The Laws of the Game were originally codified in England by The Football Association in 1863	What year did the Football Association arrange The Laws of the Game?
The history of football in England dates back to at least the eighth century AD	What century does football in England date back to?
The Cambridge Rules, first drawn up at Cambridge University in 1848, were particularly influential in the development of subsequent codes, including association football	Which rules were influential to the codes of association football?
The Laws of the Game do not specify any player positions other than goalkeeper, but a number of specialised roles have evolved	What is the only position specified by the Laws of the Game
These ongoing efforts contributed to the formation of The Football Association in 1863, which first met on the morning of 26 October 1863 at the Freemasons' Tavern in Great Queen Street, London	What year did the Football Association form?
The world's oldest football competition is the FA Cup, which was founded by C	What is C.W. Alcock responsible for founding?
The laws of the game are determined by the International Football Association Board 	What does the abbreviation IFAB stand for?
The Côte d'Ivoire national football team helped secure a truce to the nation's civil war in 2006 and it helped further reduce tensions between government and rebel forces in 2007 by playing a match in the rebel capital of Bouaké, an occasion that brought both armies together peacefully for the first time	In 2006, which team helps secure a truce during a civil war?
"It had a ""golden age"" in the United Kingdom in the early 1920s when crowds reached 50,000 at some matches; this was stopped on 5 December 1921 when England's Football Association voted to ban the game from grounds used by its member clubs"	"What decade is considered the ""golden age"" of women's football?"
The game is played using a spherical ball of 68	What would you describe the shape of the football?
The primary law is that players other than goalkeepers may not deliberately handle the ball with their hands or arms during play, though they do use their hands during a throw-in restart	Who can only handle the ball with their hands or arms during play?
In game play, players attempt to create goal-scoring opportunities through individual control of the ball, such as by dribbling, passing the ball to a team-mate, and by taking shots at the goal, which is guarded by the opposing goalkeeper	Who guards the goal?
There are 17 laws in the official Laws of the Game, each containing a collection of stipulation and guidelines	How many laws are there in the official Laws of the Game?
Each team consists of a maximum of eleven players , one of whom must be the goalkeeper	Out of the maximum amount of players allowed, one must be a what?
The basic equipment or kit players are required to wear includes a shirt, shorts, socks, footwear and adequate shin guards	The equipment a player wears is also called a what?
As the Laws were formulated in England, and were initially administered solely by the four British football associations within IFAB, the standard dimensions of a football pitch were originally expressed in imperial units	Imperial units where once used to express the dimensions of a what?
The length of the pitch for international adult matches is in the range of 100–110 m and the width is in the range of 64–75 m 	What is the range for the length for international matches in meters?
This area is marked by the goal line, two lines starting on the goal line 16	What is the penalty area marked by?
A standard adult football match consists of two periods of 45 minutes each, known as halves	How many periods are in a standard football match?
In knockout competitions where a winner is required various methods may be employed to break such a deadlock, some competitions may invoke replays	Matches where a winner must be decided is called what type of competitions?
In the late 1990s and early 2000s, the IFAB experimented with ways of creating a winner without requiring a penalty shootout, which was often seen as an undesirable way to end a match	Who experimented with creating winners without requiring penalty shootouts?
The referee may punish a player's or substitute's misconduct by a caution or dismissal 	Which card does a referee use to signal a caution to a player?
Most competitions enforce mandatory suspensions for players who are sent off in a game	Players who are sent off in a game are often faced with what?
There has been a football tournament at every Summer Olympic Games since 1900, except at the 1932 games in Los Angeles	Which year was there not a Summer Olympic Game?
These are the European Championship , the Copa América , African Cup of Nations , the Asian Cup , the CONCACAF Gold Cup and the OFC Nations Cup 	What does UEFA Stand for?
The governing bodies in each country operate league systems in a domestic season, normally comprising several divisions, in which the teams gain points throughout the season depending on results	What do teams gain for doing well throughout the season?
A number of players may be replaced by substitutes during the course of the game	What is one who replaces a player during a game called?
It is eponymous for the first four British monarchs of the House of Hanover—George I, George II, George III, and George IV—who reigned in continuous succession from August 1714 to June 1830	Who were the British monarchs of the House of Hanover from August 1714 to June 1830?
The style of Georgian buildings is very variable, but marked by a taste for symmetry and proportion based on the classical architecture of Greece and Rome, as revived in Renaissance architecture	What classical architecture is Georgian architecture based on?
In towns, which expanded greatly during the period, landowners turned into property developers, and rows of identical terraced houses became the norm	During the period of Georgian architecture what did landowners turn into?
"The period saw the growth of a distinct and trained architectural profession; before the mid-century ""the high-sounding title, 'architect' was adopted by anyone who could get away with it"""	What high sounding title was adopted by anyone who could get away with it?
Georgian succeeded the English Baroque of Sir Christopher Wren, Sir John Vanbrugh, Thomas Archer, William Talman, and Nicholas Hawksmoor; this in fact continued into at least the 1720s, overlapping with a more restrained Georgian style	What style did Georgian succeed?
In the mainstream of Georgian style were both Palladian architecture— and its whimsical alternatives, Gothic and Chinoiserie, which were the English-speaking world's equivalent of European Rococo	What are the whimsical alternatives of Palladian architecture?
Georgian architecture is characterized by its proportion and balance; simple mathematical ratios were used to determine the height of a window in relation to its width or the shape of a room as a double cube	Georgian architecture is characterized by?
Versions of revived Palladian architecture dominated English country house architecture	What revived style dominated English country house architecture?
Windows in all types of buildings were large and regularly placed on a grid; this was partly to minimize window tax, which was in force throughout the period in the United Kingdom	What tax was in force throughout the United Kingdom during this time?
Internal courtyards became more rare, except beside the stables, and the functional parts of the building were placed at the sides, or in separate buildings nearby hidden by trees	What was often used to hide functional parts of buildings?
Inside ornament was far more generous, and could sometimes be overwhelming	Where could sometimes overwhelming ornament be found?
In towns even most better-off people lived in terraced houses, which typically opened straight onto the street, often with a few steps up to the door	Most town people lived in what type of houses?
Town terraced houses for all social classes remained resolutely tall and narrow, each dwelling occupying the whole height of the building	What shape and size did most town terraced houses take on?
Blackheath, Chalk Farm and St John's Wood are among the areas contesting being the original home of the semi	What cities contest to being the original home of the semi?
Until the Church Building Act of 1818, the period saw relatively few churches built in Britain, which was already well-supplied, although in the later years of the period the demand for Non-conformist and Roman Catholic places of worship greatly increased	What act spurred to building of new churches in Britain?
Somerset House in London, designed by Sir William Chambers in 1776 for government offices, was as magnificent as any country house, though never quite finished, as funds ran out	Somerset House was designed by whom?
American buildings of the Georgian period were very often constructed of wood with clapboards; even columns were made of timber, framed up, and turned on an over-sized lathe	American buildings in the Georgian period were frequently constructed of which materials?
Unlike the Baroque style that it replaced, which was mostly used for palaces and churches, and had little representation in the British colonies, simpler Georgian styles were widely used by the upper and middle classes	What style did was little represented in British colonies?
After about 1840, Georgian conventions were slowly abandoned as a number of revival styles, including Gothic Revival, that had originated in the Georgian period, developed and contested in Victorian architecture, and in the case of Gothic became better researched, and closer to their originals	What year did Georgian architecture begin to be abandoned?
In the early decades of the twentieth century when there was a growing nostalgia for its sense of order, the style was revived and adapted and in the United States came to be known as the Colonial Revival	What was the revival of Georgian style in twentieth century United States called?
The revived Georgian style that emerged in Britain at the beginning of the 20th century is usually referred to as Neo-Georgian; the work of Edwin Lutyens includes many examples	The British revival of Georgian architecture in the 20th century is generally referred to as?
The Republic of Liberia, beginning as a settlement of the American Colonization Society , declared its independence on July 26, 1847	How did the republic of liberia begin?
Longstanding political tensions from the 27 year rule of William Tubman resulted in a military coup in 1980 that overthrew the leadership soon after his death, marking the beginning of political instability	How long did william tubman rule?
This influx was compounded by the decline of the Western Sudanic Mali Empire in 1375 and the Songhai Empire in 1591	What empire was o the decline on 1375?
The American Colonization Society was founded in 1816 in Washington, DC for this purpose, by a group of prominent politicians and slaveholders	"When was the ""american colonization society founded""?"
By 1867, the ACS had assisted in the migration of more than 13,000 African Americans to Liberia	By 1837 the ACS had assisted in moving how many african americans to liberia?
"The Americo-Liberian settlers did not identify with the indigenous peoples they encountered, especially those in communities of the more isolated ""bush"	The americo-liberians did not identify with who?
On April 12, 1980, a military coup led by Master Sergeant Samuel Doe of the Krahn ethnic group overthrew and killed President William R	Who was responsible for the death of William R. Tolbert?
The Economic Community Monitoring Group under the Economic Community of West African States organized a military task force to intervene in the crisis	Who intervened in the rebel crisis?
In March 2003, a second rebel group, Movement for Democracy in Liberia, began launching attacks against Taylor from the southeast	"What is ""Movement For democracy in Liberia""?"
The subsequent 2005 elections were internationally regarded as the most free and fair in Liberian history	The 2005 elections were known as what?
Liberia is divided into fifteen counties, which, in turn, are subdivided into a total of 90 districts and further subdivided into clans	How many counties is liberia divided into?
The Legislature is composed of the Senate and the House of Representatives	What is the legislature composed of? 
Liberia's highest judicial authority is the Supreme Court, made up of five members and headed by the Chief Justice of Liberia	What is Liberia's highest judicial authority? 
This gave it a ranking 87th of 178 countries worldwide and 11th of 47 in Sub-Saharan Africa	What was Liberia's ranking compared to the other 176 countries?
The Central Bank of Liberia is responsible for printing and maintaining the Liberian dollar, which is the primary form of currency in Liberia	What is the central bank of Liberia responsible for?
Following a peak in growth in 1979, the Liberian economy began a steady decline due to economic mismanagement following the 1980 coup	When did the Liberian economy hit it's peak growth?
In 2003, additional UN sanctions were placed on Liberian timber exports, which had risen from US$5 million in 1997 to over US$100 million in 2002 and were believed to be funding rebels in Sierra Leone	What were UN sanctions place placed on 2003?
Liberia has the highest ratio of foreign direct investment to GDP in the world, with US$16 billion in investment since 2006	Liberia has the highest ratio of what?
The Kpelle comprise more than 20% of the population and are the largest ethnic group in Liberia, residing mostly in Bong County and adjacent areas in central Liberia	What is the largest ethnic group in liberia?
There is a high percentage of interracial marriage between ethnic Liberians and the Lebanese, resulting in a significant mixed-race population especially in and around Monrovia	There is high percentage of interracial marriage between what two groups?
On average, children attain 10 years of education 	On average children attain how many years of education?
9 births per woman, the maternal mortality rate stood at 990 per 100,000 births in 2010	What was the maternal mortality rate in 2010?
Liberia has a long, rich history in textile arts and quilting, as the settlers brought with them their sewing and quilting skills	What arts does Liberia have a rich history of?
Beginning in the late 1910s and early 1920s, Whitehead gradually turned his attention from mathematics to philosophy of science, and finally to metaphysics	What did Whitehead first study?
Alfred North Whitehead was born in Ramsgate, Kent, England, in 1861	Where was Alfred North Whitehead born? 
In 1918 Whitehead's academic responsibilities began to seriously expand as he accepted a number of high administrative positions within the University of London system, of which Imperial College London was a member at the time	When did Whitehead accept administrative positions?
The two volume biography of Whitehead by Victor Lowe is the most definitive presentation of the life of Whitehead	How many volumes is the biography of Whitehead?
In addition to numerous articles on mathematics, Whitehead wrote three major books on the subject: A Treatise on Universal Algebra , Principia Mathematica , and An Introduction to Mathematics 	What did Whitehead publish numerous articles about?
At the time structures such as Lie algebras and hyperbolic quaternions drew attention to the need to expand algebraic structures beyond the associatively multiplicative class	Lie algebras and hypobolic quanternions drew attention to the need for what?
Whitehead and Russell had thought originally that Principia Mathematica would take a year to complete; it ended up taking them ten years	How long did Whitehead and Russell think it would take them to complete Principia Mathematica?
It is generally accepted that Kurt Gödel's incompleteness theorem of 1931 definitively demonstrated that for any set of axioms and inference rules proposed to encapsulate mathematics, there would in fact be some truths of mathematics which could not be deduced from them, and hence that Principia Mathematica could never achieve its aims	When was Kurt Godel's incompleteness theorem?
Whitehead's most complete work on education is the 1929 book The Aims of Education and Other Essays, which collected numerous essays and addresses by Whitehead on the subject published between 1912 and 1927	What year was The Aims of Education and Other Essays published?
Rather than teach small parts of a large number of subjects, Whitehead advocated teaching a relatively few important concepts that the student could organically link to many different areas of knowledge, discovering their application in actual life	Whitehead's education style was to teach what?
In fact, he never had any formal training in philosophy beyond his undergraduate education	What is the highest Whitehead was trained in philosophy? 
""" In Whitehead's view, scientists and philosophers make metaphysical assumptions about how the universe works all the time, but such assumptions are not easily seen precisely because they remain unexamined and unquestioned"	What do philosophers do, in Whitehead's view?
"Perhaps foremost among what Whitehead considered faulty metaphysical assumptions was the Cartesian idea that reality is fundamentally constructed of bits of matter that exist totally independently of one another, which he rejected in favor of an event-based or ""process"" ontology in which events are primary and are fundamentally interrelated and dependent on one another"	What idea states that reality is fundamentally constructed of bits of matter?
His philosophical work is generally considered to be among the most difficult to understand in all of the western canon	In all of the western canon, what is Whitehead's work considered?
However, Mathews' frustration with Whitehead's books did not negatively affect his interest	Who was frustrated in Whitehead's books but still interested?
"Though Process and Reality has been called ""arguably the most impressive single metaphysical text of the twentieth century,"" it has been little-read and little-understood, partly because it demands – as Isabelle Stengers puts it – ""that its readers accept the adventure of the questions that will separate them from every consensus"	Which publication is considered the most impressive metaphysical text?
"These ""classical"" concepts fail to adequately account for change, and overlook the active and experiential nature of the most basic elements of the world"	Concepts such as quality, matter, and form fail to account for what?
"To put it another way, a thing or person is often seen as having a ""defining essence"" or a ""core identity"" that is unchanging, and describes what the thing or person really is"	The idea that people are unchanging and stay the same even through changes is considered what?
Whitehead pointed to the limitations of language as one of the main culprits in maintaining a materialistic way of thinking, and acknowledged that it may be difficult to ever wholly move past such ideas in everyday speech	What did Whitehead believe was a culprit in maintaining a materialistic way of thinking?
A second problem with materialism is that it obscures the importance of relations	What obscures the importance of relations according to Whitehead?
In fact, Whitehead describes any entity as in some sense nothing more and nothing less than the sum of its relations to other entities – its synthesis of and reaction to the world around it	Whitehead believes any entity is in some sense what?
Of course, most entities do not have consciousness	Most entities do not have what?
"The term he coined was ""prehension"", which comes from the Latin prehensio, meaning ""to seize"	What term did Whitehead describe that perception is not limited to the living?
"Whitehead describes causal efficacy as ""the experience dominating the primitive living organisms, which have a sense for the fate from which they have emerged, and the fate towards which they go"	What is the term for the experience dominating primitive organisms that have a sense for fate?
"In higher organisms , these two modes of perception combine into what Whitehead terms ""symbolic reference"", which links appearance with causation in a process that is so automatic that both people and animals have difficulty refraining from it"	What is Whitehead's term for the two modes of perceptions combining?
"Whitehead makes the startling observation that ""life is comparatively deficient in survival value"	Whitehead observes that life is deficient in what?
""" Here Whitehead is criticizing Christianity for defining God as primarily a divine king who imposes his will on the world, and whose most important attribute is power"	What qualities dis Whitehead state that Christians attributed to their version of God?
It should be emphasized, however, that for Whitehead God is not necessarily tied to religion	What was Whitehead's belief about God in relation to religion?
God's consequent nature, on the other hand, is anything but unchanging – it is God's reception of the world's activity	How does Whitehead define he consequent nature of God?
Whitehead thus sees God and the world as fulfilling one another	How does Whitehead view the relationship between God an the world?
For Whitehead the core of religion was individual	What did Whitehead believe was the basis of religion?
However, while Whitehead saw religion as beginning in solitariness, he also saw religion as necessarily expanding beyond the individual	In what state did Whitehead believe religion began?
""" In other words, religion takes deeply felt emotions and contextualizes them within a system of general truths about the world, helping people to identify their wider meaning and significance"	What did Whitehead believe religion did with strong emotions?
"Isabelle Stengers wrote that ""Whiteheadians are recruited among both philosophers and theologians, and the palette has been enriched by practitioners from the most diverse horizons, from ecology to feminism, practices that unite political struggle and spirituality with the sciences of education"	According to Isabelle Stengers, what are unifying factors in diverse practices that have become interested in Whitehead's work?
Early followers of Whitehead were found primarily at the University of Chicago's Divinity School, where Henry Nelson Wieman initiated an interest in Whitehead's work that would last for about thirty years	Where were the first followers mainly found?
But while Claremont remains the most concentrated hub of Whiteheadian activity, the place where Whitehead's thought currently seems to be growing the most quickly is in China	Where is interest in Whitehead's work growing the fastest today?
In English-speaking countries, his primary works are little-studied outside of Claremont and a select number of liberal graduate-level theology and philosophy programs	Where are Whitehead's works primarily studied in English-speaking countries?
Deleuze's and Latour's opinions, however, are minority ones, as Whitehead has not been recognized as particularly influential within the most dominant philosophical schools	What is the general opinion of Whitehead in most philosophical schools?
Historically Whitehead's work has been most influential in the field of American progressive theology	In what field of study has Whitehead's work been most influential in the United States?
Process theology typically stresses God's relational nature	What aspect of God is usually emphasized in process theology?
In fact, process theology is difficult to define because process theologians are so diverse and transdisciplinary in their views and interests	Why is there difficulty in defining process theology ?
One philosophical school which has historically had a close relationship with process philosophy is American pragmatism	What philosophy is closely related to process philosophy?
It has been severely criticized	How was Whitehead's theory of gravitation received?
Cobb also co-authored a book with economist Herman Daly entitled For the Common Good: Redirecting the Economy toward Community, the Environment, and a Sustainable Future , which applied Whitehead's thought to economics, and received the Grawemeyer Award for Ideas Improving World Order	On which economics book did Cobb collaborate with Herman Daly?
Another model is the FEELS model developed by Xie Bangxiu and deployed successfully in China	Who established the FEELS model in China?
Whitehead has had some influence on philosophy of business administration and organizational theory	What business fields has Whitehead influenced?
Staton have also written recently on the mutual influence of Whitehead and Mary Parker Follett, a pioneer in the fields of organizational theory and organizational behavior	What is Mary Parker Follett known for?
Antibiotics revolutionized medicine in the 20th century, and have together with vaccination led to the near eradication of diseases such as tuberculosis in the developed world	What is one disease that has been nearly eradicated thanks to vaccines and antibiotics?
In empirical therapy, a patient has proven or suspected infection, but the responsible microorganism is not yet unidentified	What is one kind of therapy that may be used when a patience has an infection, but it has not been identified?
Adverse effects range from fever and nausea to major allergic reactions, including photodermatitis and anaphylaxis	What are two examples of minor side effects caused by some antibiotics?
Exposure to antibiotics early in life is associated with increased body mass in humans and mouse models	What is one common result of using antibiotics from a young age?
The majority of studies indicate antibiotics do interfere with contraceptive pills, such as clinical studies that suggest the failure rate of contraceptive pills caused by antibiotics is very low 	Do antibiotics interact with birth control pills?
Interactions between alcohol and certain antibiotics may occur and may cause side-effects and decreased effectiveness of antibiotic therapy	What is one potential issue with drinking alcohol while taking antibiotics?
A bactericidal activity of antibacterials may depend on the bacterial growth phase, and it often requires ongoing metabolic activity and division of bacterial cells	What does the bactericidal activitty of antibacterials depend on what?
Antibacterial antibiotics are commonly classified based on their mechanism of action, chemical structure, or spectrum of activity	Besides sprectrum of activity and chemical structure, how can antibacterial antibiotics classified?
With advances in medicinal chemistry, most modern antibacterials are semisynthetic modifications of various natural compounds	Besides semisytetic modifications, what advances in medicinal chemistry regarding antibacterials?
Emergence of resistance often reflects evolutionary processes that take place during antibiotic therapy	What does emergence of resistance reflect?
Intrinsic antibacterial resistance may be part of the genetic makeup of bacterial strains	What is part of hje the make up of bacterial strains?
"Antibacterial-resistant strains and species, sometimes referred to as ""superbugs"", now contribute to the emergence of diseases that were for a while well controlled"	What are strains that are resistant to antibiotics called sometimes?
Inappropriate antibiotic treatment and overuse of antibiotics have contributed to the emergence of antibiotic-resistant bacteria	What are the two biggest reasons for resistance?
Common forms of antibiotic misuse include excessive use of prophylactic antibiotics in travelers and failure of medical professionals to prescribe the correct dosage of antibiotics on the basis of the patient's weight and history of prior use	What is a way of improperly using antibiotics for those traveling?
The issues of misuse and overuse of antibiotics have been addressed by the formation of the US Interagency Task Force on Antimicrobial Resistance	What is the name of a US government agency tasked with trying to stop improper use of antibiotics?
The emergence of antibiotic resistance has prompted restrictions on their use in the UK in 1970 , and the EU has banned the use of antibiotics as growth-promotional agents since 2003	When did the EU ban antibiotics for speeding up growth?
There has been extensive use of antibiotics in animal husbandry	What besides sick people are antibiotics used for?
Before the early 20th century, treatments for infections were based primarily on medicinal folklore	What methods did people use before antibiotics to treat infections?
The effects of some types of mold on infection had been noticed many times over the course of history 	What type of organism has been reported to have worked on infections?
The first sulfonamide and first commercially available antibacterial, Prontosil, was developed by a research team led by Gerhard Domagk in 1932 at the Bayer Laboratories of the IG Farben conglomerate in Germany	What was the first available antibiotic?
In 1939, coinciding with the start of World War II, Rene Dubos reported the discovery of the first naturally derived antibiotic, tyrothricin, a compound of 20% gramicidin and 80% tyrocidine, from B	What was the first antibiotic developed from nature?
Florey and Chain succeeded in purifying the first penicillin, penicillin G, in 1942, but it did not become widely available outside the Allied military before 1945	When was penicillin G first purified?
Vaccines rely on immune modulation or augmentation	What do vaccines need to work?
Phage therapy is another option that is being looked into for treating resistant strains of bacteria	What has been talked about to treat resistant bacteria?
In April 2013, the Infectious Disease Society of America reported that the weak antibiotic pipeline does not match bacteria's increasing ability to develop resistance	How many antibiotics have been created in the last 7 years?
2	How many bacilli have been created in the last 7 years?
Possible improvements include clarification of clinical trial regulations by FDA	Who regulates antibiotic approval?
Windows 8 introduced major changes to the operating system's platform and user interface to improve its user experience on tablets, where Windows was now competing with mobile operating systems, including Android and iOS	Who are Windows main operating system competitors?
Although reaction towards its performance improvements, security enhancements, and improved support for touchscreen devices was positive, the new user interface of the operating system was widely criticized for being potentially confusing and difficult to learn 	What about Windows 8 was well received?
Windows 8 development started before Windows 7 had shipped in 2009	When did Microsoft start creating Windows 8?
The traditional Blue Screen of Death was replaced by a new Black screen, although this was later scrapped	What does BSoD stand for?
The build was released for download later in the day in standard 32-bit and 64-bit versions, plus a special 64-bit version which included SDKs and developer tools for developing Metro-style apps	What 3 versions of the build did Microsoft first release?
On February 29, 2012, Microsoft released Windows 8 Consumer Preview, the beta version of Windows 8, build 8250	When was the beta version of Windows 8 made available to the public?
On May 31, 2012, Windows 8 Release Preview was released to the public by Microsoft	When was the Release Preview revealed to consumers?
On August 1, 2012, Windows 8 was released to manufacturing with the build number 6	When did Windows 8 manufacturing begin?
Relatively few changes were made from the Release Preview to the final version; these included updated versions of its pre-loaded apps, the renaming of Windows Explorer to File Explorer, the replacement of the Aero Glass theme from Windows Vista and 7 with a new flat and solid-colored theme, and the addition of new background options for the Start screen, lock screen, and desktop	How many things did Microsoft alter after Release Preview?
8 billion was significantly larger than the US$200 million campaign used to promote Windows 95	How much money was allocated to advertise Windows 95?
"On June 12, 2013 during game 1 of the 2013 Stanley Cup Finals, Microsoft premiered the first ad in its ""Windows Everywhere"" campaign, which promoted Windows 8, Windows Phone 8, and the company's suite of online services as an interconnected platform"	When was the first game of the 2013 Stanley Cup Finals?
"New features and functionality in Windows 8 include a faster startup through UEFI integration and the new ""Hybrid Boot"" mode , a new lock screen with a clock and notifications, and the ability for enterprise users to create live USB versions of Windows "	What happens during Hybrid Boot mode?
Windows Explorer, which has been renamed File Explorer, now includes a ribbon in place of the command bar	What replaced the Windows Explorer comman bar?
Task Manager has been redesigned, including a new processes tab with the option to display fewer or more details of running applications and background processes, a heat map using different colors indicating the level of resource usage, network and disk counters, grouping by process type (e	What is the point of using different colors on a heat map?
New security features in Windows 8 include two new authentication methods tailored towards touchscreens , the addition of antivirus capabilities to Windows Defender 	What new security features did Windows 8 provide?
"Windows 8 supports a feature of the UEFI specification known as ""Secure boot"", which uses a public-key infrastructure to verify the integrity of the operating system and prevent unauthorized programs such as bootkits from infecting the device's boot process"	How does secure boot help avert boot process infections?
Windows 8 also ships with a client app for Microsoft's SkyDrive cloud storage service, which also allows apps to save files directly to SkyDrive	What is SkyDrive?
Internet Explorer 10 is included as both a desktop program and a touch-optimized app, and includes increased support for HTML5, CSS3, and hardware acceleration	What forms is Internet Exploer 10 available as?
Windows 8 also adds an integrated airplane mode setting to globally disable all wireless connectivity as well	What does airplone mode do?
According to Microsoft developer Jensen Harris, these apps are to be optimized for touchscreen environments and are more specialized than current desktop applications	Who is Jensen Harris?
"If written in some ""high-level"" languages, apps written for Windows Runtime can be compatible with both Intel and ARM versions of Windows, otherwise they are not binary code compatible"	What makes Windows apps binary code compatible?
Retail versions of Windows 8 are only able to install these apps through Windows Store—a namesake distribution platform which offers both apps, and listings for desktop programs certified for comparability with Windows 8	Where can Windows 8 install apps from?
"The term ""Immersive app"" had been used internally by Microsoft developers to refer to the apps prior to the first official presentation of Windows 8, after which they were referred to as ""Metro-style apps"" in reference to the Metro design language"	What does immersive app stand for?
The user's default browser can distribute a Metro-style web browser in same package as the desktop version, which has access to functionality unavailable to other apps, such as being able to permanently run in the background, use multiple background processes, and use Windows API code instead of WinRT 	What code did Windows 8 change to?
"The developers of both Chrome and Firefox committed to developing Metro-style versions of their browsers; while Chrome's ""Windows 8 mode"" uses a full-screen version of the existing desktop interface, Firefox's version uses a touch-optimized interface inspired by the Android version of Firefox"	Which two browsers promised to develop Metro-style versions of their browsers?
"The Start screen displays a customizable array of tiles linking to various apps and desktop programs, some of which can display constantly updated information and content through ""live tiles"""	What is found on the Start Screen?
A vertical toolbar known as the charms provides access to system and app-related functions, such as search, sharing, device management, settings, and a Start button	What is charms?
Support for playing DVD-Video was removed from Windows Media Player due to the cost of licensing the necessary decoders and the prevalence of online streaming services	Why was the ability to play DVD-Video taken off of Windows Media Player?
Backup and Restore, the backup component of Windows, is deprecated	What backup element is still found on Windows 8?
On March 12, 2013, Microsoft amended its certification requirements to only require that screens on tablets have a minimum resolution of 1024×768 	What did Microsoft change the tablet resolution requirements on March 12, 2013?
Windows 8 is available in three different editions, of which the lowest version, branded simply as Windows 8, and Windows 8 Pro, were sold at retail in most countries, and as pre-loaded software on new computers	How many Windows 8 editions are there?
Those who purchased new PCs pre-loaded with Windows 7 Home Basic, Home Premium, Professional, or Ultimate between June 2, 2012 and January 31, 2013 could digitally purchase a Windows 8 Pro upgrade for US$14	Which PC owners could purchase a Windows 8 Pro uprgrade for $14.99?
"Unlike previous versions of Windows, Windows 8 was distributed at retail in ""Upgrade"" licenses only, which require an existing version of Windows to install"	What restrictions do Windows upgrade licenses have?
"1, the ""Personal Use License"" exemption was removed from the OEM SKU, meaning that end users building their own PCs for personal use must use the full retail version in order to satisfy the Windows 8"	What exemption was removed from Windows 8.1?
The three desktop editions of Windows 8 support 32-bit and 64-bit architectures; retail copies of Windows 8 include install DVDs for both architectures, while the online installer automatically installs the version corresponding with the architecture of the system's existing Windows installation	What architecture types does Windows 8 support?
Windows RT, the only edition of Windows 8 for systems with ARM processors, only supports applications included with the system , supplied through Windows Update, or Windows Store apps, to ensure that the system only runs applications that are optimized for the architecture	What Windows version is compatible with ARM processors?
"In a post discussing secure boot on the Building Windows 8 blog, Microsoft developer Tony Mangefeste indicated that vendors would provide means to customize secure boot, stating that ""At the end of the day, the customer is in control of their PC"	Who is Tony Mangefeste?
Several notable video game developers criticized Microsoft for making its Windows Store a closed platform subject to its own regulations, as it conflicted with their view of the PC as an open platform	Who criticized Microsofts closed platform Windows Store?
"David Pierce of The Verge described Windows 8 as ""the first desktop operating system that understands what a computer is supposed to do in 2012"" and praised Microsoft's ""no compromise"" approach and the operating system's emphasis on Internet connectivity and cloud services"	Who equated windos 8 as the first desktop operating system that understand what a computer is supposed to do?
"Bright wrote that its system of hot corners and edge swiping ""wasn't very obvious"" due to the lack of instructions provided by the operating system on the functions accessed through the user interface, even by the video tutorial added on the RTM release "	What makes the Windows 8 interface difficult to use?
The market research firm IDC reported an overall drop in PC sales for the quarter, and said the drop may have been partly due to consumer reluctance to embrace the new features of the OS and poor support from OEM for these features	What is IDC?
"Strategy Analytics also noted ""a shortage of top tier apps"" for Windows tablets despite Microsoft strategy of paying developers to create apps for the operating system "	What does Strategy Analytics say Windows tablets are lacking?
In March 2013, Microsoft also amended its certification requirements to allow tablets to use the 1024×768 resolution as a minimum; this change is expected to allow the production of certified Windows 8 tablets in smaller form factors—a market which is currently dominated by Android-based tablets	What changes did Microsoft make to its certification requirements in March 2013?
"1 with Bing"" OEM SKU on May 23, 2014"	When did Microsoft make the existence of Windows 8.1 with Bing OEM SKU official?
"In May 2014, the Government of China banned the internal purchase of Windows 8-based products under government contracts requiring ""energy-efficient"" devices"	When did the Chinese government ban the purchase of Windows 8 products?
In June 2014, state broadcaster China Central Television broadcast a news story further characterizing Windows 8 as a threat to national security	What does CCTV stand for?
1 was officially announced by Microsoft on May 14, 2013	When was Windows 8.1 introduced?
Windows 8's stock apps were also updated, a new Bing-based unified search system was added, SkyDrive was given deeper integration with the operating system, and a number of new stock apps, along with a tutorial, were added	What search engine was added in Windows 8.1?
At no more than 200 kilometres north to south and 130 kilometres east to west, Swaziland is one of the smallest countries in Africa	How wide is Swaziland in miles??
Its GDP per capita of $9,714 means it is classified as a country with a lower-middle income	What is the per capita GDP of Swaziland?
Swaziland derives its name from a later king named Mswati II	What is the literal translation of Nkhosi?
In 1903, after British victory in the Anglo-Boer war, Swaziland became a British protectorate	In what year did the British take Swaziland on as a protectorate? 
The constitution for independent Swaziland was promulgated by Britain in November 1963 under the terms of which legislative and executive councils were established	When did the Swaziland constitution come to be?
Following the elections of 1973, the constitution of Swaziland was suspended by King Sobhuza II who thereafter ruled the country by decree until his death in 1982	In what year was the constitution of Swaziland suspended?
The king appoints the prime minister from the legislature and also appoints a minority of legislators to both chambers of the Libandla with help from an advisory council	Who appoints the prime minister of Swaziland?
The Swazi bicameral Parliament or Libandla consists of the Senate and the House of Assembly 	How many seats are in the Senate of Swaziland?
From the early seventies, there was active resistance to the royal hegemony	When did people begin to disputre royal hegenomy in Swaziland?
On the day of nomination, the name of the nominee is raised by a show of hand and the nominee is given an opportunity to indicate whether he or she accepts the nomination	How does a nominee for parliament in Swaziland get decided?
As noted above, there are 55 tinkhundla in Swaziland and each elects one representative to the House of Assembly of Swaziland	How many representatives does each tinkhundla elect to the Swazi House of Assembly?
A small, landlocked kingdom, Swaziland is bordered in the North, West and South by the Republic of South Africa and by Mozambique in the East	What nation is to the east of Swaziland?
About 75% of the population is employed in subsistence agriculture upon Swazi Nation Land 	What portion of the Swazi population are subsistence farmers?
8%, nearly 2 percentage points lower than growth in other Southern African Customs Union member countries	How much lower is the Swazi Real GDP growth in comparison to other Southern African Customs Union members is Swaziland?
The wage bill today constitutes over 15% of GDP and 55% of total public spending; these are some of the highest levels on the African continent	What amount of total public spending in Swaziland is going to wages?
The Swazi economy is very closely linked to the economy of South Africa, from which it receives over 90% of its imports and to which it sends about 70% of its exports	Which nations economy is Swaziland most linked with?
Swaziland's currency is pegged to the South African Rand, subsuming Swaziland's monetary policy to South Africa	What currency is Swaziland bound to?
83% of the total population adheres to Christianity, making it the most common religion in Swaziland	What percentage of the Swazi population are Christian?
The then Prime Minister Themba Dlamini declared a humanitarian crisis due to the combined effect of drought, land degradation, increased poverty, and HIV/AIDS	Who was the prime minister of Swaziland in 2004?
Pre-school education is usually for children 5-year or younger after that the students can enroll in a primary school anywhere in the country	What age attends pre-school in Swaziland?
The secondary and high school education system in Swaziland is a five-year programme divided into three years junior secondary and two years senior secondary	How many years does a student spend in secondary and high school in Swaziland?
The University of Swaziland, Southern African Nazarene University, Swaziland Christian University are the institutions that offer university education in the country	The University of Swaziland, Southern Nazarene University, offer higher learning in Swaziland, what is one other University?
The main centre for technical training in Swaziland is the Swaziland College of Technology which is slated to become a full university	Which school is the main location for technical education in Swaziland?
In addition to these institutions, Swaziland also has the Swaziland Institute of Management and Public Administration and Institute of Development Management 	In terms of education in Swaziland what does the acronym SIMPA represent?
"The training of the Sangoma is called ""kwetfwasa"""	In Swaziland, what is kwetfwasa?
In the eight-day ceremony, girls cut reeds and present them to the queen mother and then dance	How long is the Umhlanga Reed Dance?
"The country was under the chastity rite of ""umchwasho"" until 19 August 2005"	Until what date was Swaziland bound by umchwasho?
"The English word ""translation"" derives from the Latin translatio "	What Latin word does the English word translation come from?
Despite occasional theoretical diversity, the actual practice of translation has hardly changed since antiquity	How much has translation changed since antiquity?
In general, translators have sought to preserve the context itself by reproducing the original order of sememes, and hence word order — when necessary, reinterpreting the actual grammatical structure, for example, by shifting from active to passive voice, or vice versa	What have translators tried to preserve?
Generally, the greater the contact and exchange that have existed between two languages, or between those languages and a third one, the greater is the ratio of metaphrase to paraphrase that may be used in translating among them	A greater ratio of metaphrase to paraphrase can be used translating when there as been greater what between languages?
"The translator's role as a bridge for ""carrying across"" values between cultures has been discussed at least since Terence, the 2nd-century-BCE Roman adapter of Greek comedies"	How long has a translator's part in bridging values between cultures been discussed?
Though earlier approaches to translation are less commonly used today, they retain importance when dealing with their products, as when historians view ancient or medieval records to piece together events which took place in non-Western or pre-Western environments	When it comes to translation, what is less commonly used today?
Translation of material into Arabic expanded after the creation of Arabic script in the 5th century, and gained great importance with the rise of Islam and Islamic empires	When did translation of material into Arabic begin to increase?
Arabic translation efforts and techniques are important to Western translation traditions due to centuries of close contacts and exchanges	Why are Arabic translation efforts important to Western translation traditions?
The movement to translate English and European texts transformed the Arabic and Ottoman Turkish languages, and new words, simplified syntax, and directness came to be valued over the previous convolutions	What transformed Arabic languages?
After World War I, when Britain and France divided up the Middle East's countries, apart from Turkey, between them, pursuant to the Sykes-Picot agreement—in violation of solemn wartime promises of postwar Arab autonomy—there came an immediate reaction: the Muslim Brotherhood emerged in Egypt, the House of Saud took over the Hijaz, and regimes led by army officers came to power in Iran and Turkey	What two countries divvied up the Middle East's countries after WWI?
Many non-transparent-translation theories draw on concepts from German Romanticism, the most obvious influence being the German theologian and philosopher Friedrich Schleiermacher	Where do many non-transparent translation theories delve for concepts?
Comparison of a back-translation with the original text is sometimes used as a check on the accuracy of the original translation, much as the accuracy of a mathematical operation is sometimes checked by reversing the operation	What is sometimes used to check the accuracy of a translation?
"Mark Twain provided humorously telling evidence for the frequent unreliability of back-translation when he issued his own back-translation of a French translation of his short story, ""The Celebrated Jumping Frog of Calaveras County"""	Who provided a humorous example of the unreliability of back-translation? 
When a historic document survives only in translation, the original having been lost, researchers sometimes undertake back-translation in an effort to reconstruct the original text	What do researchers use back-translation to try to reconstruct when a document survives only in translation?
Translation has served as a school of writing for many authors	What has served as a school of writing for many authors?
Interpreters have sometimes played crucial roles in history	What roles have interpreters occasionally played in history?
Web-based human translation is generally favored by companies and individuals that wish to secure more accurate translations	What type of translation is favored by those wanting more accurate translations?
Relying exclusively on unedited machine translation, however, ignores the fact that communication in human language is context-embedded and that it takes a person to comprehend the context of the original text with a reasonable degree of probability	Unedited machine translation will miss what crucial aspect of human language?
In Asia, the spread of Buddhism led to large-scale ongoing translation efforts spanning well over a thousand years	Where did Buddhism spread?
The Arabs undertook large-scale efforts at translation	Who attempted a large-scale effort at translation?
The first great English translation was the Wycliffe Bible (ca	What was the first great English translation?
Meanwhile, in Renaissance Italy, a new period in the history of translation had opened in Florence with the arrival, at the court of Cosimo de' Medici, of the Byzantine scholar Georgius Gemistus Pletho shortly before the fall of Constantinople to the Turks 	Whose court did Pletho arrive in and begin a new period of translation in Renaissance Italy?
Throughout the 18th century, the watchword of translators was ease of reading	What was the guiding ideal of translators throughout the 18th century?
The 19th century brought new standards of accuracy and style	What new standards of translation came with the 19th century?
"Translation of a text that is sung in vocal music for the purpose of singing in another language—sometimes called ""singing translation""—is closely linked to translation of poetry because most vocal music, at least in the Western tradition, is set to verse, especially verse in regular patterns with rhyme"	What is the translation of text that is sung closely linked to?
Translation of sung texts is generally much more restrictive than translation of poetry, because in the former there is little or no freedom to choose between a versified translation and a translation that dispenses with verse structure	How is translation of sung texts different than translations of poetry?
Translations of sung texts—whether of the above type meant to be sung or of a more or less literal type meant to be read—are also used as aids to audiences, singers and conductors, when a work is being sung in a language not known to them	Who can translations of a sung text aid?
One of the first recorded instances of translation in the West was the rendering of the Old Testament into Greek in the 3rd century BCE	What is one of the first known instances of translation in the West?
The period preceding, and contemporary with, the Protestant Reformation saw the translation of the Bible into local European languages—a development that contributed to Western Christianity's split into Roman Catholicism and Protestantism due to disparities between Catholic and Protestant versions of crucial words and passages 	During the Protestant Reformation, what local languages was the bible translated into?
An airport is an aerodrome with facilities for flights to take off and land	What is an aerodome with facilities for flights to take off and land?
All airports use a traffic pattern to assure smooth traffic flow between departing and arriving aircraft	What do airports use to assure smooth traffic flow between departing and arriving aircraft?
For example, in the United Kingdom the state-owned British Airports Authority originally operated eight of the nation's major commercial airports - it was subsequently privatized in the late 1980s, and following its takeover by the Spanish Ferrovial consortium in 2006, has been further divested and downsized to operating just five	How many commercial airports did the British Airports Authority originally operate?
Airports are divided into landside and airside areas	Airports are divided into what two areas?
Most major airports provide commercial outlets for products and services	Most major airports provide commercial outlets for what?
The premium and VIP services may include express check-in and dedicated check-in counters	What are some services that are offered by VIP services?
Many large airports are located near railway trunk routes for seamless connection of multimodal transport, for instance Frankfurt Airport, Amsterdam Airport Schiphol, London Heathrow Airport, London Gatwick Airport and London Stansted Airport	For seamless connection of multimodal transport, where are many large airports located?
It is common for airports to provide moving walkways and buses	It is common for airports to provide moving walkways and what?
"The title of ""world's oldest airport"" is disputed, but College Park Airport in Maryland, US, established in 1909 by Wilbur Wright, is generally agreed to be the world's oldest continually operating airfield, although it serves only general aviation traffic"	What is generally agreed to be the world's oldest continually operating airfield?
Following the war, some of these military airfields added civil facilities for handling passenger traffic	Following the war, why did some military airfields add civil facilities?
The first lighting used on an airport was during the latter part of the 1920s; in the 1930s approach lighting came into use	When was the first lighting used on an airport?
Airport construction boomed during the 1960s with the increase in jet aircraft traffic	Why did airport construction boom during the 1960s?
The majority of the world's airports are non-towered, with no air traffic control presence	What does ATC stand for?
"Ground Control is responsible for directing all ground traffic in designated ""movement areas"", except the traffic on runways"	What is responsible for directing all ground traffic in designated areas?
Tower Control controls aircraft on the runway and in the controlled airspace immediately surrounding the airport	Who controls aircraft on the runway?
At all airports the use of a traffic pattern (often called a traffic circuit outside the U	What is a traffic pattern often called outside of the U.S.?
Traffic patterns are flown at one specific altitude, usually 800 or 1,000 ft above ground level 	Traffic patterns are usually flown at what altitude above ground level?
At extremely large airports, a circuit is in place but not usually used	At an extremely large airport, what is in place but not usually used?
A visual approach slope indicator helps pilots fly the approach for landing	What helps pilots fly the approach for landing?
On runways, green lights indicate the beginning of the runway for landing, while red lights indicate the end of the runway	On runways, what indicate the beginning of the runway for landing?
Hazards to aircraft include debris, nesting birds, and reduced friction levels due to environmental conditions such as ice, snow, or rain	What includes debris and nesting birds?
A tow tractor pulls the aircraft to one of the airbridges, The ground power unit is plugged in	What pulls the aircraft to one of the airbridges?
An airbase, sometimes referred to as an air station or airfield, provides basing and support of military aircraft	An airfield is also referred to as what?
One such example of this is The Terminal, a film about a man who becomes permanently grounded in an airport terminal and must survive only on the food and shelter provided by the airport	What is the title of the film where a man becomes permanently grounded in an airport terminal?
O	In what year was the Langoliers made?
O	In what year was Get Shorty released?
Landside, filming can take place in all public areas	Landside, where can filming take place?
Kievan Rus' begins with the rule of Prince Oleg, who extended his control from Novgorod south along the Dnieper river valley in order to protect trade from Khazar incursions from the east and moved his capital to the more strategic Kiev	What year was Kievan Rus became a territory?
"The term ""Kievan Rus'"" was coined in the 19th century in Russian historiography to refer to the period when the centre was in Kiev"	When was the term Kievan Rus first coined?
Prior to the emergence of Kievan Rus' in the 9th century AD, the lands between the Baltic Sea and Black Sea were primarily populated by eastern Slavic tribes	Who populated the area between the Baltic Sea and the Black sea before Kievan Rus?
"According to the ""Normanist"" view, the Rus' were Scandinavians, while Russian and Ukrainian nationalist historians generally argue that the Rus' were themselves Slavs"	"What were the ""Rus"" accourding to the ""Normanist""?"
"Ahmad ibn Fadlan, an Arab traveler during the 10th century, provided one of the earliest written descriptions of the Rus': ""They are as tall as a date palm, blond and ruddy, so that they do not need to wear a tunic nor a cloak; rather the men among them wear garments that only cover half of his body and leaves one of his hands free"	Which early traveler provided an early description of the Rus?
According to the Primary Chronicle, the territories of the East Slavs in the 9th century were divided between the Varangians and the Khazars	Which two groups were divided inn the territories of the East Slavs?
The three brothers—Rurik, Sineus, and Truvor—established themselves in Novgorod, Beloozero, and Izborsk, respectively	What were the names of the three brothers that rulled Novgotod, Beloozero, and Izborsk?
The Chronicle reports that Askold and Dir continued to Constantinople with a navy to attack the city in 863–66, catching the Byzantines by surprise and ravaging the surrounding area, though other accounts date the attack in 860	Between what years did Askold and Dir continued to attack Kiev?
Rurik led the Rus' until his death in about 879, bequeathing his kingdom to his kinsman, Prince Oleg, as regent for his young son, Igor	When did Ruik past away?
The new Kievan state prospered due to its abundant supply of furs, beeswax, honey, and slaves for export, and because it controlled three main trade routes of Eastern Europe	Why did the Kievan state prosper?
The rapid expansion of the Rus' to the south led to conflict and volatile relationships with the Khazars and other neighbors on the Pontic steppe	What led to constant problems with the Khazars?
The Byzantine Empire was able to take advantage of the turmoil to expand its political influence and commercial relationships, first with the Khazars and later with the Rus' and other steppe groups	What did the Byzantine empire use to expand its political influence?
The expansion of the Rus' put further military and economic pressure on the Khazars, depriving them of territory, tributaries, and trade	What led to Khazar having to put more strain on its military?
As the 10th century progressed, the Khazars were no longer able to command tribute from the Volga Bulgars, and their relationship with the Byzantines deteriorated, as Byzantium increasingly allied with the Pechenegs against them	Around what time did the Khazars unable to no longer command tribute from Volga?
After the Rus' attack on Constantinople in 860, the Byzantine Patriarch Photius sent missionaries north to convert the Rus' and the Slavs	In what year did the Rus attack Constantinople?
Relations between the Rus' and Byzantines became more complex after Oleg took control over Kiev, reflecting commercial, cultural, and military concerns	When did the relations between the Rus and Byzantines start to become more complicated?
The Chronicle provides a mythic tale of Oleg's death	What known document tells of the death of Oleg?
In 941, Igor led another major Rus' attack on Constantinople, probably over trading rights again	What year did Igot led a Rus attack on Constantinople?
He assembled a large force of warriors from among neighboring Slavs and Pecheneg allies, and sent for reinforcements of Varangians from “beyond the sea	Where did Igor get warriors from after returning to Kiev after being drivin out by the Byzatines?
Following the death of Grand Prince Igor in 945, his wife Olga ruled as regent in Kiev until their son Sviatoslav reached maturity (ca	When did Prince Igor past away?
It is not clearly documented when the title of the Grand Duke was first introduced, but the importance of the Kiev principality was recognized after the death of Sviatoslav I in 972 and the ensuing struggle between Vladimir the Great and Yaropolk I	What year did Sviatoslav pass away?
Vladimir had been prince of Novgorod when his father Sviatoslav I died in 972	What territory was Vladimar Prince of before his father died?
Vladimir's choice of Eastern Christianity may also have reflected his close personal ties with Constantinople, which dominated the Black Sea and hence trade on Kiev's most vital commercial route, the Dnieper River	What was considered too be Kiev's most important route for trade?
"Yaroslav, known as ""the Wise"", struggled for power with his brothers"	What was Yaroslav also known as?
An unconventional power succession system was established whereby power was transferred to the eldest member of the ruling dynasty rather than from father to son, i	What was the name of the UN-conventional system that was implemented?
The most prominent struggle for power was the conflict that erupted after the death of Yaroslav the Wise	What immediately occurred after Yarsolav the Wise past away?
The decline of Constantinople – a main trading partner of Kievan Rus' – played a significant role in the decline of the Kievan Rus'	What played a major role in the decline of the Rus?
The last ruler to maintain united state was Mstislav the Great	Who was the last ruller to keep the region united?
The Crusades brought a shift in European trade routes that accelerated the decline of Kievan Rus'	What helped speed up the decline of the Kievan Rus?
In the north, the Republic of Novgorod prospered because it controlled trade routes from the River Volga to the Baltic Sea	Why was the Republic of Novgorod doing so well while the Kievan Rus declined?
In the northeast, Slavs from the Kievan region colonized the territory that later would become the Grand Duchy of Moscow by subjugating and merging with the Finnic tribes already occupying the area	The Slavs from Kievan would eventually settle in the North East of the region, What would this region later become?
To the southwest, the principality of Halych had developed trade relations with its Polish, Hungarian and Lithuanian neighbours and emerged as the local successor to Kievan Rus'	Which neighbors did Halych develop trade relations with?
"Due to the expansion of trade and its geographical proximity, Kiev became the most important trade centre and chief among the communes; therefore the leader of Kiev gained political ""control"" over the surrounding areas"	How did the leader of Kiev gain political control?
In the 11th century and the 12th century, the princes and their retinues, which were a mixture of Slavic and Scandinavian elites, dominated the society of Kievan Rus'	Which two groups dominated the society of Kievan Rus?
The change in political structure led to the inevitable development of the peasant class or smerdy	What eventually led to the creation of the peasant/smerdy class?
Kievan Rus', although sparsely populated compared to Western Europe, was not only the largest contemporary European state in terms of area but also culturally advanced	Despite being much smaller than wester europe, what they known for being?
Yaroslav the Wise, whose stepmother belonged to the Macedonian dynasty, the greatest one to rule Byzantium, married the only legitimate daughter of the king who Christianized Sweden	To which dynasty did Yarolav's step mother belong to?
From the 9th century, the Pecheneg nomads began an uneasy relationship with Kievan Rus′	How early did the relationship begin between the Pecheneg and the Rus?
Predominantly it is considered that the first head was Michael I of Kiev, however some sources also claim Leontiy who is often placed after Michael or Anastas Chersonesos, became the first bishop of the Church of the Tithes	Although uncertian, who is considered to be the first head of Kiev?
The Super Nintendo Entertainment System or SNES, and commonly shortened to Super Nintendo) is a 16-bit home video game console developed by Nintendo that was released in 1990 in Japan and South Korea, 1991 in North America, 1992 in Europe and Australasia , and 1993 in South America	When was the SNES released in the US?
To compete with the popular Family Computer in Japan, NEC Home Electronics launched the PC Engine in 1987, and Sega Enterprises followed suit with the Mega Drive in 1988	What was NEC's competitor to the NES called in Japan?
Designed by Masayuki Uemura, the designer of the original Famicom, the Super Famicom was released in Japan on Wednesday, November 21, 1990 for ¥25,000 	Who designed both the NES and SNES?
On August 23, 1991, Nintendo released the Super Nintendo Entertainment System, a redesigned version of the Super Famicom, in North America for US$199	How much did the SNES cost in the US?
"The rivalry between Nintendo and Sega resulted in what has been described as one of the most notable console wars in video game history, in which Sega positioned the Genesis as the ""cool"" console, with more mature titles aimed at older gamers, and edgy advertisements that occasionally attacked the competition"	What market did the Genesis target?
During the NES era, Nintendo maintained exclusive control over titles released for the system—the company had to approve every game, each third-party developer could only release up to five games per year , those games could not be released on another console within two years, and Nintendo was the exclusive manufacturer and supplier of NES cartridges	What was Nintendo's limit on games per developer per year on the NES?
The company continued to carefully review submitted titles, giving them scores using a 40-point scale and allocating Nintendo's marketing resources accordingly	How did Nintendo rank submitted games?
Game players were not the only ones to notice the violence in this game; US Senators Herb Kohl and Joe Lieberman convened a Congressional hearing on December 9, 1993 to investigate the marketing of violent video games to children	Which senators held a hearing about video game violence in 1993?
While other companies were moving on to 32-bit systems, Rare and Nintendo proved that the SNES was still a strong contender in the market	Which company developed Donkey Kong Country?
In October 1997, Nintendo released a redesigned model of the SNES in North America for US$99, which sometimes included the pack-in game Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island	How much did the SNS-101 cost in the US?
This can be overcome through the use of adapters, typically by inserting the imported cartridge in one slot and a cartridge with the correct region chip in a second slot	How were adapters used to get around PAL region restrictions?
PAL consoles face another incompatibility when playing out-of-region cartridges: the NTSC video standard specifies video at 60 Hz while PAL operates at 50 Hz, resulting in approximately 16	What video frequency does NTSC use?
All versions of the SNES are predominantly gray, although the exact shade may differ	What color is the SNES?
All versions incorporate a top-loading slot for game cartridges, although the shape of the slot differs between regions to match the different shapes of the cartridges	How is the SNES's slot positioned?
The ABS plastic used in the casing of some older SNES and Super Famicom consoles is particularly susceptible to oxidization on exposure to air, likely due to an incorrect mixture of the stabilizing or flame retarding additives	What material is the SNES case made of?
The cartridge media of the console is officially referred to as Game Pak in most Western regions, and as Cassette (カセット, Kasetto	What are SNES game cartridges officially called in the US?
The standard SNES controller adds two additional face buttons to the design of the NES iteration, arranging the four in a diamond shape, and introduces two shoulder buttons	What face buttons do SNES controllers have that NES controllers didn't?
T	What face buttons do NES controllers have that aren't on the SNES controllers?
Many of these devices were modeled after earlier add-ons for the NES: the Super Scope is a light gun functionally similar to the NES Zapper and the Super Advantage is an arcade-style joystick with adjustable turbo settings akin to the NES Advantage	What game accessory was similar to the NES Zapper?
While Nintendo never released an adapter for playing NES games on the SNES , the Super Game Boy adapter cartridge allows games designed for Nintendo's portable Game Boy system to be played on the SNES	How did Nintendo say an NES and SNES could be used on the same TV?
Japan saw the release of the Satellaview, a modem which attached to the Super Famicom's expansion port and connected to the St	What modem was available for the Japanese SNES?
Ultimately, deals with both Sony and Philips fell through, with Philips gaining the right to release a series of titles based on Nintendo franchises for its CD-i multimedia player and Sony going on to develop its own console based on its initial dealings with Nintendo 	Which companies did Nintendo try to get to make a CD add-on for the SNES?
U	What did Sega develop after its first dealings with Philips?
Nintendo of America took the same stance against the distribution of SNES ROM image files and the use of emulators as it did with the NES, insisting that they represented flagrant software piracy	What did Nintendo consider emulators?
Emulation of the SNES is now available on handheld units, such as Android devices, Apple's iPhone and iPad, Sony's PlayStation Portable , the Nintendo DS and Game Boy Advance, the Gizmondo, the Dingoo and the GP2X by GamePark Holdings, as well as PDAs	What smartphones have SNES emulators?
"In 2007, GameTrailers named the SNES as the second-best console of all time in their list of top ten consoles that ""left their mark on the history of gaming"", citing its graphic, sound, and library of top-quality games"	Which publication said Nintendo's best console ever was the SNES?
However, some scholars contest the idea of a Proto-Euphratean language or one substrate language	Some scholars contest that there was only one what?
Native Sumerian rule re-emerged for about a century in the Neo-Sumerian Empire or Third Dynasty of Ur approximately 2100-2000 BC, but the Akkadian language also remained in use	How long was there native Sumerian rule during the Third Dynasty of Ur?
"The term ""Sumerian"" is the common name given to the ancient non-Semitic inhabitants of Mesopotamia, Sumer, by the Semitic Akkadians"	What is the common name given to the non-Semitic dwellers of Mesopotamia by the Akkadians?
The Sumerian city-states rose to power during the prehistoric Ubaid and Uruk periods	During what periods did the Sumerican city-states rise to power?
The Ubaid period is marked by a distinctive style of fine quality painted pottery which spread throughout Mesopotamia and the Persian Gulf	Fine quality painted pottery is a distinctive style of what period in Sumerian history?
4100–2900 BC calibrated), the volume of trade goods transported along the canals and rivers of southern Mesopotamia facilitated the rise of many large, stratified, temple-centered cities where centralized administrations employed specialized workers	What facilitated the rise of Sumerian cities?
Sumerian cities during the Uruk period were probably theocratic and were most likely headed by a priest-king , assisted by a council of elders, including both men and women	"What is an ""ensi""?"
The earliest dynastic king on the Sumerian king list whose name is known from any other legendary source is Etana, 13th king of the first dynasty of Kish	What is the name of the earliest dynastic Sumerian king?
Although short-lived, one of the first empires known to history was that of Eannatum of Lagash, who annexed practically all of Sumer, including Kish, Uruk, Ur, and Larsa, and reduced to tribute the city-state of Umma, arch-rival of Lagash	What is one of the first empires known in history?
The Semitic Akkadian language is first attested in proper names of the kings of Kish c	Where is the Semetic Akkadian language first found?
"Later, the 3rd dynasty of Ur under Ur-Nammu and Shulgi, whose power extended as far as southern Assyria, was the last great ""Sumerian renaissance"", but already the region was becoming more Semitic than Sumerian, with the rise in power of the Akkadian speaking Semites in Assyria and elsewhere, and the influx of waves of Semitic Martu who were to found several competing local powers including Isin, Larsa, Eshnunna and eventually Babylon"	Which dynasty of Ur was the last great Sumerian renaissance?
Ecologically, the agricultural productivity of the Sumerian lands was being compromised as a result of rising salinity	What effect was rising salinity having on the agricultural productivity of the Sumerian lands?
The Sumerians were a non-Semitic caucasoid people, and spoke a language isolate; a number of linguists believed they could detect a substrate language beneath Sumerian, because names of some of Sumer's major cities are not Sumerian, revealing influences of earlier inhabitants	Who were a non-Semitic caucasoid people?
It is speculated by some archaeologists that Sumerian speakers were farmers who moved down from the north, after perfecting irrigation agriculture there	Where do some archaeologists speculate Sumerians originally moved from?
Though women were protected by late Sumerian law and were able to achieve a higher status in Sumer than in other contemporary civilizations, the culture was male-dominated	How were women protected in Sumerian society?
The most important archaeological discoveries in Sumer are a large number of tablets written in cuneiform	What were the most important discoveries for archaeologists from Sumer?
The Sumerian language is generally regarded as a language isolate in linguistics because it belongs to no known language family; Akkadian, by contrast, belongs to the Semitic branch of the Afroasiatic languages	Why is the Sumerian language usually thought of as a language isolate in linguistics?
Sumerian religion seems to have been founded upon two separate cosmogenic myths	How many cosmogenic myths does the religion of the Sumerians appear to be founded upon?
These deities formed a core pantheon; there were additionally hundreds of minor ones	What did the Sumerian deities form?
Ziggurats each had an individual name and consisted of a forecourt, with a central pond for purification	What were Sumerian temples known as?
It was believed that when people died, they would be confined to a gloomy world of Ereshkigal, whose realm was guarded by gateways with various monsters designed to prevent people entering or leaving	What type of afterlife could Sumerians look forward to?
In the early Sumerian Uruk period, the primitive pictograms suggest that sheep, goats, cattle, and pigs were domesticated	When do the pictograms suggest Sumerians had domesticated livestock?
The Sumerians were one of the first known beer drinking societies	What was Sumerians one of the first societies known to consume?
"As is known from the ""Sumerian Farmer's Almanac"", after the flood season and after the Spring Equinox and the Akitu or New Year Festival, using the canals, farmers would flood their fields and then drain the water"	How do archaeologists know about Sumerian agricultural practices? 
"Uruk) era suggest that ""Stone was scarce, but was already cut into blocks and seals"	What does Archibald Sayce think early Sumerian pictograms suggest about the availability of stone?
The most impressive and famous of Sumerian buildings are the ziggurats, large layered platforms which supported temples	What is the most impressive and famous style of Sumerian buildings?
The Sumerians developed a complex system of metrology c	What did the Sumerians a complex system of around 4000 BC?
Commercial credit and agricultural consumer loans were the main types of loans	What were the main types of loans in Sumerian society?
"Periodically ""clean slate"" decrees were signed by rulers which cancelled all the rural debt and allowed bondservants to return to their homes"	"What type of debt did ""clean slate"" decrees cancel?"
The almost constant wars among the Sumerian city-states for 2000 years helped to develop the military technology and techniques of Sumer to a high level	What contributed to developing military technology for Sumer?
Evidence of wheeled vehicles appeared in the mid 4th millennium BC, near-simultaneously in Mesopotamia, the Northern Caucasus and Central Europe	When did evidence of wheeled vehicles appear throughout the world?
They invented and developed arithmetic by using several different number systems including a mixed radix system with an alternating base 10 and base 6	Sumerians used number systems which included what alternating bases?
Tuvalu , formerly known as the Ellice Islands, is a Polynesian island nation located in the Pacific Ocean, midway between Hawaii and Australia	What is the previous name of Tuvalu?
In 1568, Spanish navigator Álvaro de Mendaña was the first European to sail through the archipelago, sighting the island of Nui during his expedition in search of Terra Australis	In what year was Tuvalu discovered by a European?
The origins of the people of Tuvalu are addressed in the theories regarding migration into the Pacific that began about 3000 years ago	How many years ago did migrations of people happen in the Pacific area?
An important creation myth of the islands of Tuvalu is the story of the te Pusi mo te Ali who created the islands of Tuvalu; te Ali is believed to be the origin of the flat atolls of Tuvalu and the te Pusin is the model for the coconut palms that are important in the lives of Tuvaluans	What is the creation myth of Tuvalu?
Captain John Byron passed through the islands of Tuvalu in 1764 during his circumnavigation of the globe as captain of the Dolphin 	What explorer traveled through the Tuvalu islands in 1764?
The next European to visit was Arent Schuyler de Peyster, of New York, captain of the armed brigantine or privateer Rebecca, sailing under British colours, which passed through the southern Tuvaluan waters in May 1819; de Peyster sighted Nukufetau and Funafuti, which he named Ellice's Island after an English Politician, Edward Ellice, the Member of Parliament for Coventry and the owner of the Rebecca's cargo	When did Arent Schuyler de Peyster visit Tuvalu?
"For less than a year between 1862–63, Peruvian ships, engaged in what became to be called the ""blackbirding"" trade, combed the smaller islands of Polynesia from Easter Island in the eastern Pacific to Tuvalu and the southern atolls of the Gilbert Islands , seeking recruits to fill the extreme labour shortage in Peru"	In what years did Peruvian ships seek laborers in the Polynesian islands?
Christianity came to Tuvalu in 1861 when Elekana, a deacon of a Congregational church in Manihiki, Cook Islands became caught in a storm and drifted for 8 weeks before landing at Nukulaelae on 10 May 1861	When did Christianity arrive in Tuvalu?
Trading companies became active in Tuvalu in the mid-19th century; the trading companies engaged palagi traders who lived on the islands	In what century did trading companies arrive in Tuvalu?
In 1892 Captain Davis of the HMS Royalist reported on trading activities and traders on each of the islands visited	What sea captain reported on the Tuvalu trading in 1892?
In the later 1890s and into first decade of the 20th century, structural changes occurred in the operation of the Pacific trading companies; they moved from a practice of having traders resident on each island to instead becoming a business operation where the supercargo would deal directly with the islanders when a ship visited an island	What operational changes caused a decline in the numbers of palagi traders in Tuvalu?
In 1890 Robert Louis Stevenson, his wife Fanny Vandegrift Stevenson and her son Lloyd Osbourne sailed on the Janet Nicoll, a trading steamer owned by Henderson and Macfarlane of Auckland, New Zealand, which operated between Sydney and Auckland and into the central Pacific	What writer visited the Tuvalu Islands in 1890?
The boreholes on Funafuti, at the site now called Darwin's Drill, are the result of drilling conducted by the Royal Society of London for the purpose of investigating the formation of coral reefs to determine whether traces of shallow water organisms could be found at depth in the coral of Pacific atolls	What are the boreholes on Funafuti called?
Charles Hedley, a naturalist at the Australian Museum, accompanied the 1896 expedition and during his stay on Funafuti collected invertebrate and ethnological objects	What naturalist was on the 1896 expedition to Funafuti?
During the Pacific War Funafuti was used as a base to prepare for the subsequent seaborn attacks on the Gilbert Islands that were occupied by Japanese forces	For what purpose was Funafuti used during the Pacific War? 
In 1974 ministerial government was introduced to the Gilbert and Ellice Islands Colony through a change to the Constitution	In what year was ministerial government started in the Gilbert and Ellice islands?
Following independence in October 1978 the House of the Assembly was renamed the Parliament of Tuvalu or Palamene o Tuvalu	When did Tuvalu acquire independence?
There are eight Island Courts and Lands Courts; appeals in relation to land disputes are made to the Lands Courts Appeal Panel	How many courts are there on Tuvalu?
Tuvalu participates in the work of Secretariat of the Pacific Community, or SPC and is a member of the Pacific Islands Forum, the Commonwealth of Nations and the United Nations	In what group is Tuvalu involved?
A major international priority for Tuvalu in the UN, at the 2002 Earth Summit in Johannesburg, South Africa and in other international fora, is promoting concern about global warming and the possible sea level rising	What crisis is a major concern for Tuvalu at the UN?
Tuvalu participates in the Alliance of Small Island States , which is a coalition of small island and low-lying coastal countries that have concerns about their vulnerability to the adverse effects of global climate change	Of what alliance is Tuvalu a member?
Tuvalu participates in the operations of the Pacific Island Forum Fisheries Agency and the Western and Central Pacific Fisheries Commission 	In what fishery group does Tuvalu participate? 
In July 2013 Tuvalu signed the Memorandum of Understanding to establish the Pacific Regional Trade and Development Facility, which Facility originated in 2006, in the context of negotiations for an Economic Partnership Agreement between Pacific ACP States and the European Union	What trade agreement did Tuvalu sign in 2013?
Each island has its own high-chief, or ulu-aliki, and several sub-chiefs 	What is the Tuvalu high chief on each island called?
"In 2014 attention was drawn to an appeal to the New Zealand Immigration and Protection Tribunal against the deportation of a Tuvaluan family on the basis that they were ""climate change refugees"", who would suffer hardship resulting from the environmental degradation of Tuvalu"	What was the argument against the deportation of a Tuvaluan family from new Zealand?
New Zealand has an annual quota of 75 Tuvaluans granted work permits under the Pacific Access Category, as announced in 2001	What is New Zealand's annual quota of Tuvaluan granted work permits?
The Tuvaluan language and English are the national languages of Tuvalu	Besides English, what is the national language of Tuvalu?
The Princess Margaret Hospital on Funafuti is the only hospital in Tuvalu	What is the only hospital in Tuvalu?
Sixth form students who pass their PSSC go on to the Augmented Foundation Programme, funded by the government of Tuvalu	What group funds the Augmented Foundation Programme?
Required attendance at school is 10 years for males and 11 years for females 	What is the required education for males on Tuvalu?
Community Training Centres have been established within the primary schools on each atoll	What type of school has Tuvalu set up on each atoll?
The traditional buildings of Tuvalu used plants and trees from the native broadleaf forest, including timber from: Pouka, ; Ngia or Ingia bush, ; Miro, ; Tonga, ; Fau or Fo fafini, or woman's fibre tree 	What were the traditional building materials on Tuvalu?
The women of Tuvalu use cowrie and other shells in traditional handicrafts	What sea creatures were used in traditional handicrafts?
The cuisine of Tuvalu is based on the staple of coconut and the many species of fish found in the ocean and lagoons of the atolls	What is the stable protein of Tuvalu?
Another important building is the falekaupule or maneapa the traditional island meeting hall, where important matters are discussed and which is also used for wedding celebrations and community activities such as a fatele involving music, singing and dancing	What type of structure is the falekaupule?
A traditional sport played in Tuvalu is kilikiti, which is similar to cricket	What is the traditional sport on Tuvalu?
At the 2013 Pacific Mini Games, Tuau Lapua Lapua won Tuvalu's first gold medal in an international competition in the weightlifting 62 kilogram male snatch	What athlete won Tuvalu's first gold metal in competition? 
"A major sporting event is the ""Independence Day Sports Festival"" held annually on 1 October"	What is a major annual sports event in Tuvalu?
Tuvalu was exposed to rapid rises in world prices of fuel and food in 2008, with the level of inflation peaking at 13	What rises in cost have effected Tuvalu's domestic growth?
Banking services are provided by the National Bank of Tuvalu	What business provides banking services on Tuvalu?
Tuvaluans are well known for their seafaring skills, with the Tuvalu Maritime Training Institute on Amatuku motu , Funafuti, providing training to approximately 120 marine cadets each year so that they have the skills necessary for employment as seafarers on merchant shipping	What school provides maritime education on Tuvalu?
tv Internet Top Level Domain 	What si Tuvalu's tv domain?
The United Nations designates Tuvalu as a least developed country because of its limited potential for economic development, absence of exploitable resources and its small size and vulnerability to external economic and environmental shocks	What is the UN developmental designation for Tuvalu?
The Tuvalu Media Department of the Government of Tuvalu operates Radio Tuvalu which broadcasts from Funafuti	What is the radio station on Tuvalu?
Funafuti is the only port but there is a deep-water berth in the harbour at Nukufetau	Where is Tuvalu's only port?
Tuvalu consists of three reef islands and six true atolls	How many reef islands does the Tuvalu group have?
Funafuti is the largest atoll of the nine low reef islands and atolls that form the Tuvalu volcanic island chain	Which of Tuvalu's atolls is largest?
Tuvalu experiences the effects of El Niño and La Niña caused by changes in ocean temperatures in the equatorial and central Pacific	What specific ocean temperature conditions effect Tuvalu?
The governments of Australia and New Zealand responded to the 2011 fresh-water crisis by supplying temporary desalination plants, and assisted in the repair of the existing desalination unit that was donated by Japan in 2006	What type of device did Australia and New Zealand offer to Tuvalu during the 2011 drought?
The eastern shoreline of Funafuti Lagoon was modified during World War II when the airfield was constructed	What is the modern name for the air field built during WWII?
The reefs at Funafuti have suffered damage, with 80 per cent of the coral becoming bleached as a consequence of the increase in ocean temperatures and ocean acidification	What percentage of the Tuvalu coral has become bleached?
The rising population has resulted in an increased demand on fish stocks, which are under stress; although the creation of the Funafuti Conservation Area has provided a fishing exclusion area to help sustain the fish population across the Funafuti lagoon	What has been formed to protect the fish stocks in Tuvalu Lagoon?
Reverse osmosis desalination units supplement rainwater harvesting on Funafuti	What type of desalination is used on Funafuti?
In July 2012 a United Nations Special Rapporteur called on the Tuvalu Government to develop a national water strategy to improve access to safe drinking water and sanitation	When did the UN ask Tuvalu to come up with a plan to improve drinking water?
Because of the low elevation, the islands that make up this nation are vulnerable to the effects of tropical cyclones and by the threat of current and future sea level rise	What geological situation makes Tuvalu prone to storm damage?
Cyclone Bebe in 1972 caused severe damage to Funafuti	What cyclone badly damaged Funafuti?
In March 2015, the winds and storm surge created by Cyclone Pam resulted in waves of 3 metres (9	In what year did Cyclone Pam strike Tuvalu?
The Tuvalu Government carried out assessments of the damage caused by Cyclone Pam to the islands and has provided medical aid, food as well as assistance for the cleaning-up of storm debris	What did the Tuvalu government assess after Cyclone Pam?
Whether there are measurable changes in the sea level relative to the islands of Tuvalu is a contentious issue	What subject is arguable concerning Tuvalu?
The atolls have shown resilience to gradual sea-level rise, with atolls and reef islands being able to grow under current climate conditions by generating sufficient sand and coral debris that accumulates and gets dumped on the islands during cyclones	What have the Tuvalu atolls displayed about sea level rise?
While some commentators have called for the relocation of Tuvalu's population to Australia, New Zealand or Kioa in Fiji, in 2006 Maatia Toafa said his government did not regard rising sea levels as such a threat that the entire population would need to be evacuated	What do some people want to do with the people of Tuvalu?
The defined dogma of the Immaculate Conception regards original sin only, saying that Mary was preserved from any stain 	What is the Immaculate Conception a representation of the avoidance of ?
The definition makes no declaration about the Church's belief that the Blessed Virgin was sinless in the sense of freedom from actual or personal sin	Is it believed that Mary carried no transgression which would require blame ?
Catholics believe that Mary was not the product of a virginal conception herself but was the daughter of a human father and mother, traditionally known by the names of Saint Joachim and Saint Anne	What is the view held at the Vatican regarding how Mary was actually given life into the world ?
Another misunderstanding is that, by her immaculate conception, Mary did not need a saviour	What did Mary supposedly not require that everyone else also required and why was this so ?
Mary's complete sinlessness and concomitant exemption from any taint from the first moment of her existence was a doctrine familiar to Greek theologians of Byzantium	What Empire held Grecian teachers of the virginity of Mary's conception ?
"Thus in the first five centuries such epithets as ""in every respect holy"", ""in all things unstained"", ""super-innocent"", and ""singularly holy"" are applied to her; she is compared to Eve before the fall, as ancestress of a redeemed people; she is ""the earth before it was accursed"""	What phrases were used to describe Mary ?
"Although hymnographers and scholars, like the Emperor Justinian I, were accustomed to call Mary ""prepurified"" in their poetic and credal statements, the first point of departure for more fully commenting on Nazianzen's meaning occurs in Sophronius of Jerusalem"	What Byzantine Ruler ho ruled from from 527 to 565 was also a well trained thinker of concepts ?
By 750, the feast of her conception was widely celebrated in the Byzantine East, under the name of the Conception of Saint Anne	What was widely observed in the eastern portion of the Byzantine world ?
On 28 February 1476, Pope Sixtus IV, authorized those dioceses that wished to introduce the feast to do so, and introduced it to his own diocese of Rome in 1477, with a specially composed Mass and Office of the feast	What happened on the final day of the month of love that was of significance was authorized by the Holy Roman Church leader ?
In 1839 Mariano Spada , professor of theology at the Roman College of Saint Thomas, published Esame Critico sulla dottrina dell’ Angelico Dottore S	Who was the teacher who committed the act ?
It seems to have been St Bernard of Clairvaux who, in the 12th century, explicitly raised the question of the Immaculate Conception	Who began to query the position of the conception of Mary following the 11th century ?
1308), a Friar Minor like Saint Bonaventure, argued, on the contrary, that from a rational point of view it was certainly as little derogatory to the merits of Christ to assert that Mary was by him preserved from all taint of sin, as to say that she first contracted it and then was delivered	What did the the monk of minor believe to be true of Mary ?
By the end of the 15th century the belief was widely professed and taught in many theological faculties, but such was the influence of the Dominicans, and the weight of the arguments of Thomas Aquinas that the Council of Trent —which might have been expected to affirm the doctrine—instead declined to take a position	Was the practce behind the meaning of the Mary inception festivals taught at Universities of theology ?
The papal bull defining the dogma, Ineffabilis Deus, mentioned in particular the patrististic interpretation of Genesis 3:15 as referring to a woman, Mary, who would be eternally at enmity with the evil serpent and completely triumphing over him	What holy document takes the view of Mary back to the creation of man and woman ?
"Contemporary Eastern Orthodox Christians often object to the dogmatic declaration of her immaculate conception as an ""over-elaboration"" of the faith and because they see it as too closely connected with a particular interpretation of the doctrine of ancestral sin"	What sect often stands in disagreement over the virginal inception of Mary ?
"Martin Luther, who initiated the Protestant Reformation, said: ""Mother Mary, like us, was born in sin of sinful parents, but the Holy Spirit covered her, sanctified and purified her so that this child was born of flesh and blood, but not with sinful flesh and blood"	Who is the person that started the religion that separated itself from the Catholic Church in the 17th century ?
"The report ""Mary: Faith and Hope in Christ"", by the Anglican-Roman Catholic International Commission, concluded that the teaching about Mary in the two definitions of the Assumption and the Immaculate Conception can be said to be consonant with the teaching of the Scriptures and the ancient common traditions"	What was written by the a all inclusive group convened by the holy church centered in Rome ?
"Thus, commenting in 1734 on the passage in the Qur'an, ""I have called her Mary; and I commend her to thy protection, and also her issue, against Satan driven away with stones"", George Sale stated: ""It is not improbable that the pretended immaculate conception of the virgin Mary is intimated in this passage"	What do these authors use in the form of proof for credit given to the other religion ?
Others have rejected that the doctrine of Immaculate Conception exists in Islam, the Quranic account does not confirm the Immaculate Conception exclusively for Mary as in Islam every human child is born pure and immaculate, her sinless birth is thus independent of the Christian docrtrine of original sin as no such doctrine exists in Islam	Does everyone agree on the credit that should be given for the story of Mary's inception ?
"In volume 5 of his Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire, published in 1788, Edward Gibbon wrote: ""The Latin Church has not disdained to borrow from the Koran the immaculate conception of his virgin mother"	What did the writer of a 1788 multi-volumed text say concerning plagiarism and the Roman Catholic Church ?
Your clothing is white as snow, and your face is like the sun	What color garment is used in traditional chants to represent the purity of Mary's conception ?
"The moon is under her feet and a halo of twelve stars surround her head, possibly a reference to ""a woman clothed with the sun"" from Revelation 12:1-2"	What does Mary stand upon in this symbol?
Namibia has free education for both Primary and secondary education levels	What is the cost of primary and secondary education in Namibia?
Namibia , officially the Republic of Namibia ; Afrikaans: Republiek van Namibië) is a country in southern Africa whose western border is the Atlantic Ocean	What is the Afrikaans name for Namibia?
The dry lands of Namibia were inhabited since early times by San, Damara, and Namaqua, and since about the 14th century AD by immigrating Bantu who came with the Bantu expansion	When did Bantu immigrate to Namibia?
It recognised the South West Africa People's Organisation as the official representative of the Namibian people in 1973	What does SWAPO stand for?
From the late 18th century onwards, Orlam clans from the Cape Colony crossed the Orange River and moved into the area that today is southern Namibia	Orlam clans crossed which river to migrate to Namibia?
The first Europeans to disembark and explore the region were the Portuguese navigators Diogo Cão in 1485 and Bartolomeu Dias in 1486; still the region was not claimed by the Portuguese crown	When did Bartolomeu Dias explore Namibia? 
From 1904 to 1907, the Herero and the Namaqua took up arms against the Germans and in calculated punitive action by the German occupiers, the 'first genocide of the Twentieth Century' was committed	Herero and what other group took action against German occupiers?
South Africa occupied the colony in 1915 after defeating the German force during World War I and administered it from 1919 onward as a League of Nations mandate territory	When did South Africa occupy Namibia? 
In response to the 1966 ruling by the International Court of Justice, South-West Africa People's Organisation military wing, People's Liberation Army of Namibia, a guerrilla group began their armed struggle for independence, but it was not until 1988 that South Africa agreed to end its occupation of Namibia, in accordance with a UN peace plan for the entire region	Which guerrilla group fought for Namibia's independence? 
South West Africa became known as Namibia by the UN when the General Assembly changed the territory's name by Resolution 2372 of 12 June 1968	What was Namibia previously called?
A combined UN civilian and peace-keeping force called UNTAG under Finnish diplomat Martti Ahtisaari was deployed from April 1989 to March 1990 to monitor the peace process, elections and supervise military withdrawals	What does UNTAG stand for?
The Namibian Constitution adopted in February 1990 incorporated protection for human rights, compensation for state expropriations of private property, an independent judiciary and an executive presidency 	When was the Namibian Constitution adopted?
Since independence Namibia has successfully completed the transition from white minority apartheid rule to parliamentary democracy	What did Namibia transition to after white minority apartheid rule?
The Kalahari Desert, an arid region shared with South Africa and Botswana, is one of Namibia's well-known geographical features	What Desert is shared between South Africa and Botswana?
Namibia extends from 17°S to 25°S: climatically the range of the sub-Tropical High Pressure Belt, arid is the overall climate description descending from the Sub-Humid through Semi-Arid between 300 and 500 mm and Arid from 150 to 300 mm to the Hyper-Arid coastal plain with less than a 100 mm mean	What is the climate range for Namibia?
Typically the sub-Tropical High Pressure Belt, with frequent clear skies, provides more than 300 days of sunshine per year	What is the typical amount of sunshine days in Tropical high pressure belt?
Weather and climate in the coastal area are dominated by the cold, north-flowing Benguela current of the Atlantic Ocean which accounts for very low precipitation , frequent dense fog, and overall lower temperatures than in the rest of the country	What current dominates the coastal area of Namibia?
Namibia is the driest country in sub-Saharan Africa and depends largely on groundwater	What is the driest country in sub-Saharan Africa?
Namibia is one of few countries in the world to specifically address conservation and protection of natural resources in its constitution	What does Namibia protect in it's constitution? 
In 1993, the newly formed government of Namibia received funding from the United States Agency for International Development through its Living in a Finite Environment Project	When did Namibia receive funding from USAID?
Namibia follows a largely independent foreign policy, with persisting affiliations with states that aided the independence struggle, including Cuba	Who does Namibia have affiliation with in their foreign policy?
"Labour and Social Welfare Minister Immanuel Ngatjizeko praised the 2008 study as ""by far superior in scope and quality to any that has been available previously"", but its methodology has also received criticism"	Who is the Labour and Social Welfare Minister?
In 2013, global business and financial news provider, Bloomberg, named Namibia the top emerging market economy in Africa and the 13th best in the world	What did Bloomberg name Namibia?
About half of the population depends on agriculture for its livelihood, but Namibia must still import some of its food	How much of the population depends on agriculture?
Providing 25% of Namibia's revenue, mining is the single most important contributor to the economy	How much revenue does mining provide Namibia?
Sport hunting is also a large, and growing component of the Namibian economy, accounting for 14% of total tourism in the year 2000, or $19	What accounts for almost 14% of total tourism in Namibia?
The capital city of Windhoek plays a very important role in Namibia's tourism due to its central location and close proximity to Hosea Kutako International Airport	What is the capital of Namibia?
Namibia's primary tourism related governing body, the Namibia Tourism Board , was established by an Act of Parliament: the Namibia Tourism Board Act, 2000 	What does NTB stand for?
Apart from residences for upper and middle class households, sanitation is insufficient in most residential areas	Most residential areas are insufficient in what area of Namibia?
The majority of Namibian whites and nearly all those who are mixed race speak Afrikaans and share similar origins, culture, and religion as the white and coloured populations of South Africa	What is the language of Namibia?
Namibia conducts a census every ten years	How often does Namibia conduct a census?
Up to 1990, English, German and Afrikaans were official languages	German, English, and Afrikaans were the official languages until when in Namibia?
Inline hockey was first played in 1995 and has also become more and more popular in the last years	What popular sport was first played in Namibia in 1995?
The first newspaper in Namibia was the German-language Windhoeker Anzeiger, founded 1898	What was the first Namibian newspaper?
Other mentionable newspapers are the tabloid Informanté owned by TrustCo, the weekly Windhoek Observer, the weekly Namibia Economist, as well as the regional Namib Times	What is a popular tabloid magazine in Namibia?
Compared to neighbouring countries, Namibia has a large degree of media freedom	Compared to neighbouring countries, what freedom does Namibia have?
The AIDS epidemic is a large problem in Namibia	What epidemic is a large problem in Namibia?
The malaria problem seems to be compounded by the AIDS epidemic	What health issue is compounded by the AIDS epidemic in Namibia?
Russian ) is an East Slavic language and an official language in Russia, Belarus, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan and many minor or unrecognised territories	What language sub-family is Russian in?
Russian distinguishes between consonant phonemes with palatal secondary articulation and those without, the so-called soft and hard sounds	What kind of phonemes are soft sounds?
It is a lineal descendant of the language used in Kievan Rus'	What language does Russian descend from?
The vocabulary , principles of word formations, and, to some extent, inflections and literary style of Russian have been also influenced by Church Slavonic, a developed and partly russified form of the South Slavic Old Church Slavonic language used by the Russian Orthodox Church	What language does the Russian Orthodox Church use?
Until the 20th century, the language's spoken form was the language of only the upper noble classes and urban population, as Russian peasants from the countryside continued to speak in their own dialects	When did Russian language spread to the peasants?
For example, if 53% of ethnic Estonians between 15 and 19 claim to speak some Russian, then among the 10- to 14-year-old group, command of Russian has fallen to 19% 	What is the ratio of young Estonians who speak Russian relative to those who speak English?
As the Grand Duchy of Finland was part of the Russian Empire from 1809 to 1918, a number of Russian speakers have remained in Finland	When did Finland join the Russian Empire?
According to estimates from Demoskop Weekly, in 2004 there were 14,400,000 native speakers of Russian in the country, and 29 million active speakers	How many Ukrainians speak Russian natively as of 2004?
In the 20th century, Russian was mandatorily taught in the schools of the members of the old Warsaw Pact and in other countries that used to be satellites of the USSR	What pact contained many Russian-speaking countries?
The United Kingdom, Spain, Portugal, France, Italy, Belgium, Greece, Brazil, Norway, and Austria have significant Russian-speaking communities	In which European countries do many Russian immigrants live?
In Armenia Russian has no official status, but it's recognised as a minority language under the Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities	What convention recognizes Russian in Armenia?
In Georgia Russian has no official status, but it's recognised as a minority language under the Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities	What convention recognizes Russian in Georgia?
In Kazakhstan Russian is not a state language, but according to article 7 of the Constitution of Kazakhstan its usage enjoys equal status to that of the Kazakh language in state and local administration	What is the legal status of Russian in Kazakhstan?
The language was first introduced in North America when Russian explorers voyaged into Alaska and claimed it for Russia during the 1700s	Where did Russian explorers first reach North America?
This practice goes back to the Apollo-Soyuz mission, which first flew in 1975	For which mission did NASA astronauts first learn Russian?
In March 2013 it was announced that Russian is now the second-most used language on the Internet after English	What is the second-most-popular language online as of 2013?
"Some linguists divide the dialects of Russian into two primary regional groupings, ""Northern"" and ""Southern"", with Moscow lying on the zone of transition between the two"	What two regions do some linguists divide Russian into?
The Northern Russian dialects and those spoken along the Volga River typically pronounce unstressed /o/ clearly 	What is okanye?
In the Southern Russian dialects, instances of unstressed /e/ and /a/ following palatalized consonants and preceding a stressed syllable are not reduced to , being instead pronounced in such positions (e	What is pronounced in Southern Russian?
In the 19th, Vladimir Dal compiled the first dictionary that included dialectal vocabulary	Who made the first dialectal Russian dictionary?
Older letters of the Russian alphabet include ⟨ѣ⟩, which merged to ⟨е⟩ ; ⟨і⟩ and ⟨ѵ⟩, which both merged to ⟨и⟩ ; ⟨ѳ⟩, which merged to ⟨ф⟩ ; ⟨ѫ⟩, which merged to ⟨у⟩ ; ⟨ѭ⟩, which merged to ⟨ю⟩ ; and ⟨ѧ/⟨ѩ⟩⟩, which later were graphically reshaped into ⟨я⟩ and merged phonetically to /ja/ or /ʲa/	What did the old letter ⟨ѣ⟩ become?
For example, мороз is transliterated moroz, and мышь , mysh or myš'	What is 'moroz' a transliteration of?
KOI8-R was designed by the Soviet government and was intended to serve as the standard encoding	Who created KOI8-R encoding?
According to the Institute of Russian Language of the Russian Academy of Sciences, an optional acute accent may, and sometimes should, be used to mark stress	What organization is the Institute of Russian Language part of?
Petersburg Phonological School), which are written with different letters depending on whether or not the preceding consonant is palatalized	When are Russian vowels written differently?
"While /k/, /ɡ/, /x/ do have palatalized allophones , only /kʲ/ might be considered a phoneme, though it is marginal and generally not considered distinctive , 'it weaves')/""этот кот"" , 'this cat'))"	What might /kʲ/ be considered?
Judging by the historical records, by approximately 1000 AD the predominant ethnic group over much of modern European Russia, Ukraine and Belarus was the Eastern branch of the Slavs, speaking a closely related group of dialects	When did Eastern Slavs become the dominant group in the area of Ukraine?
Blocks of specialized vocabulary were adopted from the languages of Western Europe	Where did Russian get specialized vocabulary from?
The modern literary language is usually considered to date from the time of Alexander Pushkin in the first third of the 19th century	Who revolutionized modern Russian?
Following the break-up of the USSR in 1991, several of the newly independent states have encouraged their native languages, which has partly reversed the privileged status of Russian, though its role as the language of post-Soviet national discourse throughout the region has continued	When did the USSR dissolve?
"According to figures published in 2006 in the journal ""Demoskop Weekly"" research deputy director of Research Center for Sociological Research of the Ministry of Education and Science Arefyev A"	What department is the Research Center for Sociological Research part of?
The United States Air Force is the aerial warfare service branch of the United States Armed Forces and one of the seven American uniformed services	What is the USAF?
Air Force is a military service organized within the Department of the Air Force, one of the three military departments of the Department of Defense	How many departments are there in the Department of Defense?
Recently, the Air Force refined its understanding of the core duties and responsibilities it performs as a Military Service Branch, streamlining what previously were six distinctive capabilities and seventeen operational functions into twelve core functions to be used across the doctrine, organization, training, equipment, leadership, and education, personnel, and facilities spectrum	How many core functions did the Air Force reduce its duties down to recently? 
Assure/Dissuade/Deter is a mission set derived from the Air Force's readiness to carry out the nuclear strike operations mission as well as from specific actions taken to assure allies as a part of extended deterrence	What is the mission set of the Air Force called that includes nuclear strike operations? 
Nuclear strike is the ability of nuclear forces to rapidly and accurately strike targets which the enemy holds dear in a devastating manner	What is the definition of a nuclear strike? 
Nuclear surety ensures the safety, security and effectiveness of nuclear operations	What ensures the safety of nuclear operations? 
"Offensive Counterair is defined as ""offensive operations to destroy, disrupt, or neutralize enemy aircraft, missiles, launch platforms, and their supporting structures and systems both before and after launch, but as close to their source as possible"" "	What does the abbreviation OCA stand for? 
"Defensive Counterair is defined as ""all the defensive measures designed to detect, identify, intercept, and destroy or negate enemy forces attempting to penetrate or attack through friendly airspace"" "	What does the abbreviation DCA stand for? 
"Space superiority is ""the degree of dominance in space of one force over another that permits the conduct of operations by the former and its related land, sea, air, space, and special operations forces at a given time and place without prohibitive interference by the opposing force"" "	What is the dominance in space of one force over another? 
"Space Control is defined as ""operations to ensure freedom of action in space for the US and its allies and, when directed, deny an adversary freedom of action in space"	What is the definition of Space Control according to the US and its allies? 
This is the passive, active, and dynamic employment of capabilities to respond to imminent or on-going actions against Air Force or Air Force-protected networks, the Air Force's portion of the Global Information Grid, or expeditionary communications assigned to the Air Force	Who responds with the employment of capabilities where there is a threat?
Cyberspace Support is foundational, continuous, or responsive operations ensuring information integrity and availability in, through, and from Air Force-controlled infrastructure and its interconnected analog and digital portion of the battle space	What division ensures the Air Force's information integrity and availability? 
"Command and control is ""the exercise of authority and direction by a properly designated commander over assigned and attached forces in the accomplishment of the mission"	What is the definition of Command and Control in the Air Force operations? 
"Planning and Directing is ""the determination of intelligence requirements, development of appropriate intelligence architecture, preparation of a collection plan, and issuance of orders and requests to information collection agencies"" "	What agency is in charge of intelligence requirements? 
"Special Operations are ""operations conducted in hostile, denied, or politically sensitive environments to achieve military, diplomatic, informational, and/or economic objectives employing military capabilities for which there is no broad conventional force requirement"	What are Special Operations? 
"Airlift is ""operations to transport and deliver forces and materiel through the air in support of strategic, operational, or tactical objectives"" "	What is the definition of Airlift according to the Air Mobility Operations? 
"Aeromedical Evacuation is ""the movement of patients under medical supervision to and between medical treatment facilities by air transportation"" "	What is the movement of patients who need medical attention called?
"Personnel Recovery is defined as ""the sum of military, diplomatic, and civil efforts to prepare for and execute the recovery and reintegration of isolated personnel"" "	What does the abbreviation PR stand for in terms of the US military?
"Humanitarian Assistance Operations are ""programs conducted to relieve or reduce the results of natural or manmade disasters or other endemic conditions such as human pain, disease, hunger, or privation that might present a serious threat to life or that can result in great damage to or loss of property"	What are programs that are designed to help with natural or manmade disaters? 
Building Partnerships is described as airmen interacting with international airmen and other relevant actors to develop, guide, and sustain relationships for mutual benefit and security	What does Building Partnerships relate to in the Air Force? 
Air Force in 1907, which through a succession of changes of organization, titles, and missions advanced toward eventual separation 40 years later	When did the US Air Force separate from the War Department? 
The act created the National Military Establishment , which was composed of three subordinate Military Departments, namely the Department of the Army, the Department of the Navy, and the newly created Department of the Air Force	What was the National Military Establishment renamed in 1949?
During the early 2000s, the USAF fumbled several high profile aircraft procurement projects, such as the missteps on the KC-X program	When did the USAF have several missteps of aircraft procurement projects? 
Since 2005, the USAF has placed a strong focus on the improvement of Basic Military Training for enlisted personnel	What did the USAF strive to improve since 2005?
In 2007, the USAF undertook a Reduction-in-Force 	What year did the USAF take a Reduction-in-force?
On 5 June 2008, Secretary of Defense Robert Gates, accepted the resignations of both the Secretary of the Air Force, Michael Wynne, and the Chief of Staff of the United States Air Force, General T	Who was Robert Gates? 
Due to the Budget sequestration in 2013, the USAF was forced to ground many of its squadrons	Why was the USAF forced to ground some of its squadrons in 2013?
Specific concerns include a compounded inability for the Air Force to replace its aging fleet, and an overall reduction of strength and readiness	What is one of the concerns of the Air Force? 
The Department of the Air Force is one of three military departments within the Department of Defense, and is managed by the civilian Secretary of the Air Force, under the authority, direction, and control of the Secretary of Defense	Who is the Department of the Air Force managed by?
When required to support operational missions, the Secretary of Defense directs the Secretary of the Air Force to execute a Change in Operational Control of these units from their administrative alignment to the operational command of a Regional Combatant Commander 	Who directs the Secretary of the Air Force during operational missions? 
"""Chopped"" units are referred to as forces"	"What are ""Chopped"" units called in the USAF?"
AFSCs range from officer specialties such as pilot, combat systems officer, missile launch officer, intelligence officer, aircraft maintenance officer, judge advocate general , medical doctor, nurse or other fields, to various enlisted specialties	What kind of AFSC is a JAG?
Beyond combat flight crew personnel, perhaps the most dangerous USAF jobs are Explosive Ordnance Disposal , Combat rescue officer, Pararescue, Security Forces, Combat Control, Combat Weather, Tactical Air Control Party, and AFOSI agents, who deploy with infantry and special operations units who disarm bombs, rescue downed or isolated personnel, call in air strikes and set up landing zones in forward locations	What is one of the most dangerous jobs for USAF personnel?
Training programs vary in length; for example, 3M0X1 has 31 days of tech school training, while 3E8X1 is one year of training with a preliminary school and a main school consisting of over 10 separate divisions, sometimes taking students close to two years to complete	What USAF tech school has 31 days of training?
USAF rank is divided between enlisted airmen, non-commissioned officers, and commissioned officers, and ranges from the enlisted Airman Basic to the commissioned officer rank of General 	What groups is the USAF rank divided amoung? 
Air Force officer promotions are governed by the Defense Officer Personnel Management Act of 1980 and its companion Reserve Officer Personnel Management Act for officers in the Air Force Reserve and the Air National Guard	What are Air Force Officer promotions overseen by?
During the board process an officer's record is reviewed by a selection board at the Air Force Personnel Center at Randolph Air Force Base in San Antonio, Texas	Where is an officer's record in the USAF reviewed for a promotion?
Although provision is made in Title 10 of the United States Code for the Secretary of the Air Force to appoint warrant officers, the Air Force does not currently use warrant officer grades, and is the only one of the U	What section in the US Code for the Secretary of the Air Force allows for the appointment of warrant officers?
Enlisted members of the USAF have pay grades from E-1 to E-9 	What is the lowest pay grade in the USAF?
military where NCO status is achieved when an enlisted person reaches the pay grade of E-5	When does NCO status occur in the USAF?
"The first USAF dress uniform, in 1947, was dubbed and patented ""Uxbridge Blue"" after ""Uxbridge 1683 Blue"", developed at the former Bachman-Uxbridge Worsted Company"	When was the first USAF dress uniform introduced?
In addition to basic uniform clothing, various badges are used by the USAF to indicate a billet assignment or qualification-level for a given assignment	What is worn by USAF members to indicate a billet assignment? 
Officers may be commissioned upon graduation from the United States Air Force Academy, upon graduation from another college or university through the Air Force Reserve Officer Training Corps program, or through the Air Force Officer Training School 	USAF Officers can be commissioned after graduation from what school? 
The Air Force also provides Commissioned Officer Training for officers of all three components who are direct-commissioned to non-line positions due to their credentials in medicine, law, religion, biological sciences, or healthcare administration	What does the Air Force provide for officers of direct to non-line positions?
The US Air Force Fitness Test is designed to test the abdominal circumference, muscular strength/endurance and cardiovascular respiratory fitness of airmen in the USAF	What test is designed to test the fitness of airmen in the USAF? 
The proximity to friendly forces require precision strikes from these aircraft that are not possible with bomber aircraft listed below	What does the closeness to friendly troops require of these US Air Force aircraft?
Many attack aircraft, even ones that look like fighters, are optimized to drop bombs, with very little ability to engage in aerial combat	What are most attack aircraft in the US Air Force designed to do? 
The service's B-2A aircraft entered service in the 1990s, its B-1B aircraft in the 1980s and its current B-52H aircraft in the early 1960s	When did the B-2A aircraft enter into service of the US Air Force? 
Cargo and transport aircraft are typically used to deliver troops, weapons and other military equipment by a variety of methods to any area of military operations around the world, usually outside of the commercial flight routes in uncontrolled airspace	What type of aircraft is used to deliver troops and weapons to military operations? 
The purpose of electronic warfare is to deny the opponent an advantage in the EMS and ensure friendly, unimpeded access to the EM spectrum portion of the information environment	What is the purpose of electronic warfare?
The fighter aircraft of the USAF are small, fast, and maneuverable military aircraft primarily used for air-to-air combat	What is the primary function of the USAF fighter aircraft?
The USAF's KC-135 and KC-10 aerial refueling aircraft are based on civilian jets	What kind of aircraft is the USAF's KC-135?
In response to the 2007 United States Air Force nuclear weapons incident, Secretary of Defense Robert Gates accepted in June 2009 the resignations of Secretary of the Air Force Michael Wynne and the Chief of Staff of the Air Force General T	What US Secretary of Defense accepted resignations of top US Air Force officials in June of 2009?
Although the paradigm is changing, for most of its history, the Air Force, completely unlike its sister services, has been an organization in which mostly its officers fought, not its enlisted force, the latter being primarily a rear echelon support force	How does the US Air Force differ from other branches of the military?
Cultural and career issues in the U	What is the reason for the shortage of UAV operators in the US Air Force?
Air Force's formal and informal traditions are an amalgamation of those taken from the Royal Air Force (e	Where did some of the US Air Force traditions come from? 
"The United States Air Force has had numerous recruiting slogans including ""No One Comes Close"" and Uno Ab Alto "	What was a recent US Air Force recruiting slogan? 
Recent developments in LEDs permit them to be used in environmental and task lighting	What type of atmosphere can LED lighting be used?
Electroluminescence as a phenomenon was discovered in 1907 by the British experimenter H	LED lighting is the end result of what phenomenon?
In 1957, Braunstein further demonstrated that the rudimentary devices could be used for non-radio communication across a short distance	What year was it discovered that early LED instruments could be used for non-radio communication?
In September 1961, while working at Texas Instruments in Dallas, Texas, James R	In what state what near-infrared light emission discovered? 
, while working at General Electric Company	At what global company was the first visible-spectrum LED developed?
The first commercial LEDs were commonly used as replacements for incandescent and neon indicator lamps, and in seven-segment displays, first in expensive equipment such as laboratory and electronics test equipment, then later in such appliances as TVs, radios, telephones, calculators, as well as watches 	What was the first commercial uses of LEDs?
The first high-brightness blue LED was demonstrated by Shuji Nakamura of Nichia Corporation in 1994 and was based on InGaN	What color LED was demonstrated in 1994?
The attainment of high efficiency in blue LEDs was quickly followed by the development of the first white LED	What LED quickly followed the blue LEDs?
A P-N junction can convert absorbed light energy into a proportional electric current	What converts absorbed light energy into an electric current?
In September 2003, a new type of blue LED was demonstrated by Cree that consumes 24 mW at 20 milliamperes 	In what year was a new type of blue LED produced?
The most common symptom of LED failure is the gradual lowering of light output and loss of efficiency	What is a symptom of LED failure?
Since LED efficacy is inversely proportional to operating temperature, LED technology is well suited for supermarket freezer lighting	LED efficacy is inversely proportional to what?
The first blue-violet LED using magnesium-doped gallium nitride was made at Stanford University in 1972 by Herb Maruska and Wally Rhines, doctoral students in materials science and engineering	The first blue-violet LED was developed at what University?
In the late 1980s, key breakthroughs in GaN epitaxial growth and p-type doping ushered in the modern era of GaN-based optoelectronic devices	In what decade were breakthroughs made that brought in the modern era of GaN-based optoelectronic devices?
Nakamura, Hiroshi Amano and Isamu Akasaki were awarded the Nobel Prize in Physics in 2014 for the invention of the blue LED	What Nobel Prize did Nakamura, Amano, and Akasaki receive in 2014?
They have an active region consisting of one or more InGaN quantum wells sandwiched between thicker layers of GaN, called cladding layers	What are cladding layers?
With nitrides containing aluminium, most often AlGaN and AlGaInN, even shorter wavelengths are achievable	What substance does nitrides contain?
White light can be formed by mixing differently colored lights; the most common method is to use red, green, and blue 	What colors are used to form white light?
There are several types of multi-color white LEDs: di-, tri-, and tetrachromatic white LEDs	What is one type of multi-color white LED?
Multi-color LEDs offer not merely another means to form white light but a new means to form light of different colors	Multi-color LEDs offer what else besides the formation of white light?
This method involves coating LEDs of one color with phosphors of different colors to form white light; the resultant LEDs are called phosphor-based or phosphor-converted white LEDs 	What method involves coating LEDs of one color with phosphors of different colors?
Phosphor-based LED efficiency losses are due to the heat loss from the Stokes shift and also other phosphor-related degradation issues	Why is efficiency sometimes lost in phosphor-based LEDs?
Among the challenges being faced to improve the efficiency of LED-based white light sources is the development of more efficient phosphors	What can improve the efficiency of LED-based white light?
White LEDs can also be made by coating near-ultraviolet LEDs with a mixture of high-efficiency europium-based phosphors that emit red and blue, plus copper and aluminium-doped zinc sulfide that emits green	What are near-ultraviolet LEDs coated with to create white LED?
A new style of wafers composed of gallium-nitride-on-silicon is being used to produce white LEDs using 200-mm silicon wafers	What is being used to produce white LEDs?
Quantum dots are semiconductor nanocrystals that possess unique optical properties	What nanocrystals possess unique optical properties?
The structure of QD-LEDs used for the electrical-excitation scheme is similar to basic design of OLEDs	What is one scheme of Quantum Dot excitation?
Some can emit over a thousand lumens	How many lumens can some high-power LEDs emit?
LEDs have been developed by Seoul Semiconductor that can operate on AC power without the need for a DC converter	What company has developed LEDs that can operate on AC power?
Alphanumeric LEDs are available in seven-segment, starburst and dot-matrix format	What type of LEDs are available in seven-segment format?
"Digital-RGB LEDs are RGB LEDs that contain their own ""smart"" control electronics"	What makes RGB LEDs different?
An LED filament consists of multiple LED dice connected in series on a common longitudinal substrate that form a thin rod reminiscent of a traditional incandescent filament	What does an LED filament consist of?
The current–voltage characteristic of an LED is similar to other diodes, in that the current is dependent exponentially on the voltage 	How are LEDs similar to other diodes?
"The vast majority of devices containing LEDs are ""safe under all conditions of normal use"", and so are classified as ""Class 1 LED product""/""LED Klasse 1"""	How are most LEDs classified?
While LEDs have the advantage over fluorescent lamps that they do not contain mercury, they may contain other hazardous metals such as lead and arsenic	What substance does fluorescent lamps contain?
One-color light is well suited for traffic lights and signals, exit signs, emergency vehicle lighting, ships' navigation lights or lanterns and LED-based Christmas lights	What type of light is ideal for traffic signals?
Because of their long life, fast switching times, and their ability to be seen in broad daylight due to their high output and focus, LEDs have been used in brake lights for cars' high-mounted brake lights, trucks, and buses, and in turn signals for some time, but many vehicles now use LEDs for their rear light clusters	Why are LED lights sought after for various applications?
Assistive listening devices in many theaters and similar spaces use arrays of infrared LEDs to send sound to listeners' receivers	Where are infrared LEDs used in everday life?
In the US, one kilowatt-hour (3	In what country does one kilowatt-hour of electricity causes 1.34 pounds of CO 2 emission?
Machine vision systems often require bright and homogeneous illumination, so features of interest are easier to process	LEDs are often used for what type of systems?
The light from LEDs can be modulated very quickly so they are used extensively in optical fiber and free space optics communications	Where are LEDs often used?
The Nintendo Wii's sensor bar uses infrared LEDs	What video game console uses infrared LEDs?
LEDs have also been used as a medium-quality voltage reference in electronic circuits	What quality has LEDs been used as?
The formalization of the division between small powers and great powers came about with the signing of the Treaty of Chaumont in 1814	What was the formalization of the division of small powers and great powers?
Great powers characteristically possess military and economic strength, as well as diplomatic and soft power influence, which may cause middle or small powers to consider the great powers' opinions before taking actions of their own	What do great powers usually have?
Kenneth Waltz, the founder of the neorealist theory of international relations, uses a set of five criteria to determine great power: population and territory; resource endowment; economic capability; political stability and competence; and military strength	Whos was the founder of the neorealist theory of international relations?
All states have a geographic scope of interests, actions, or projected power	What do all states have?
Other important criteria throughout history are that great powers should have enough influence to be included in discussions of political and diplomatic questions of the day, and have influence on the final outcome and resolution	What discussion should great powers be included on?
"Lord Castlereagh, the British Foreign Secretary, first used the term in its diplomatic context, in a letter sent on February 13, 1814: ""It affords me great satisfaction to acquaint you that there is every prospect of the Congress terminating with a general accord and Guarantee between the Great powers of Europe, with a determination to support the arrangement agreed upon, and to turn the general influence and if necessary the general arms against the Power that shall first attempt to disturb the Continental peace"	When did Lord Castlereagh first use the term Great Powers?
Of the five original great powers recognised at the Congress of Vienna, only France and the United Kingdom have maintained that status continuously to the present day, although France was defeated in the Franco-Prussian War and occupied during World War II	What 2 powers named in the 5 orignal great powers of the congress of vienna have maintained that status?
Over time, the relative power of these five nations fluctuated, which by the dawn of the 20th century had served to create an entirely different balance of power	Was the power of the 5 countries constant?
The conclusion of the Great War and the resulting treaties of Versailles, St-Germain, Neuilly, Trianon and Sèvres witnessed the United Kingdom, France, Italy, Japan and the United States as the chief arbiters of the new world order	What marked the conclusion of The Great War?
However, the Council began with only four permanent members—the United Kingdom, France, Italy, and Japan—because the United States, meant to be the fifth permanent member, left because the US Senate voted on 19 March 1920 against the ratification of the Treaty of Versailles, thus preventing American participation in the League	Who were the four permanent members of the League of Nations Council?
When World War II started in 1939, it divided the world into two alliances—the Allies ; and the Axis powers consisting of Germany, Italy and Japan	When did World War II start?
Foremost among these is the concept of the superpower, used to describe those nations with overwhelming power and influence in the rest of the world	What is a superpower?
During the Cold War, the Asian power of Japan and the European powers of the United Kingdom, France, and West Germany rebuilt their economies	During the cold war, what European powers rebuilt their ecomonies?
"According to Joshua Baron – a ""researcher, lecturer, and consultant on international conflict"" – since the early 1960s direct military conflicts and major confrontations have ""receded into the background"" with regards to relations among the great powers"	Since what time has military conflicts receded?
Another important factor is the apparent consensus among Western great powers that military force is no longer an effective tool of resolving disputes among their peers	What formerly effective tool for international disputes is no longer effective among peer powers?
"China, France, Russia, the United Kingdom and the United States are often referred to as great powers by academics due to ""their political and economic dominance of the global arena"""	What countries are recognized as Nuclear Weapons States?
Japan and Germany are great powers too, though due to their large advanced economies rather than their strategic and hard power capabilities (i	What countries are great powers mostly based on economic reasons?
In addition to those contemporary great powers mentioned above, Zbigniew Brzezinski and Malik Mohan consider India to be a great power too	Zbigniew Brzezinski and Malik Mohan consider what country to be a great power too?
Milena Sterio, American expert of international law, includes the former axis powers and India among the great powers along with the permanent members of the UNSC	Milena Sterio includes what former axis powers among great powers?
With continuing European integration, the European Union is increasingly being seen as a great power in its own right, with representation at the WTO and at G8 and G-20 summits	What organization is often seen as a great power in addition to member counties?
"""Between 1500 and 1953, there were 64 wars in which at least one great power was opposed to another, and they averaged little more than five years in length"	How many wars occured between 1500s and 1953?
Birds are a group of endothermic vertebrates, characterised by feathers, toothless beaked jaws, the laying of hard-shelled eggs, a high metabolic rate, a four-chambered heart, and a lightweight but strong skeleton	What is a group of endothermic vertebrates characterised by feathers and toothless beaked jaws?
The fossil record indicates that birds are the last surviving dinosaurs, having evolved from feathered ancestors within the theropod group of saurischian dinosaurs	What are the last surviving dinosaurs, according o the fossil record?
The digestive and respiratory systems of birds are also uniquely adapted for flight	What makes birds uniquely adapted for flight?
Some birds, especially corvids and parrots, are among the most intelligent animals; several bird species make and use tools, and many social species pass on knowledge across generations, which is considered a form of culture	Which type of birds are among the most intelligent animals?
Songbirds, parrots, and other species are popular as pets	Which birds are popular as pets?
Aves and a sister group, the clade Crocodilia, contain the only living representatives of the reptile clade Archosauria	Besides Aves, what group contains the only living representatives of the reptile clade Archosauria?
Based on fossil and biological evidence, most scientists accept that birds are a specialized subgroup of theropod dinosaurs, and more specifically, they are members of Maniraptora, a group of theropods which includes dromaeosaurs and oviraptorids, among others	What evidence leads most scientists to accept that birds are a specialized subgroup of theropod dinosaurs?
The consensus view in contemporary paleontology is that the flying theropods, or avialans, are the closest relatives of the deinonychosaurs, which include dromaeosaurids and troodontids	What are the closest relatives of the deinonychosaurs?
The Late Jurassic Archaeopteryx is well known as one of the first transitional fossils to be found, and it provided support for the theory of evolution in the late 19th century	What is known as one of the first transitional fossils to be found?
The earliest known avialan fossils come from the Tiaojishan Formation of China, which has been dated to the late Jurassic period , about 160 million years ago	The Oxfordian stage is also known as what?
Avialans diversified into a wide variety of forms during the Cretaceous Period	During which time period did avialans diversify into a wide variety of forms?
"The first large, diverse lineage of short-tailed avialans to evolve were the enantiornithes, or ""opposite birds"", so named because the construction of their shoulder bones was in reverse to that of modern birds"	What were the first large, diverse lineage of short-tailed avialans to evolve?
Many species of the second major avialan lineage to diversify, the Euornithes , were semi-aquatic and specialized in eating fish and other small aquatic organisms	What does Euornithes mean?
All modern birds lie within the crown group Aves , which has two subdivisions: the Palaeognathae, which includes the flightless ratites and the weak-flying tinamous, and the extremely diverse Neognathae, containing all other birds	All modern birds lie within which crown group?
The earliest divergence within the Neognathes was that of the Galloanserae, the superorder containing the Anseriformes and the Galliformes 	What was the earliest divergence within the Neognathes?
The classification of birds is a contentious issue	Sibley and Ahlquist' Phylogeny and Classification of Birds is a landmark work on the classification of what animals?
Birds live and breed in most terrestrial habitats and on all seven continents, reaching their southern extreme in the snow petrel's breeding colonies up to 440 kilometres inland in Antarctica	Birds live on how many continents?
Some of these introductions have been deliberate; the ring-necked pheasant, for example, has been introduced around the world as a game bird	The ring-necked pheasant has been introduced as what kind of bird?
The skeleton consists of very lightweight bones	What consists of very lightweight bones?
Like the reptiles, birds are primarily uricotelic, that is, their kidneys extract nitrogenous waste from their bloodstream and excrete it as uric acid instead of urea or ammonia through the ureters into the intestine	What is it called when a bird's kidneys extract nitrogenous waste from their bloodstream and secrete it as uric acid?
Birds have one of the most complex respiratory systems of all animal groups	Which animal has one of the most complex respiratory system of all animal groups?
The avian circulatory system is driven by a four-chambered, myogenic heart contained in a fibrous pericardial sac	The avian circulatory system is driven by what?
The arteries are composed of thick elastic muscles to withstand the pressure of the ventricular constriction, and become more rigid as they move away from the heart	Why are birds' arteries composed of thick elastic muscles?
The nervous system is large relative to the bird's size	Which bird system is large relative to a bird's size?
Instead the eye is lubricated by the nictitating membrane, a third eyelid that moves horizontally	What covers the eye and acts as a contact lens in many aquatic birds?
A dearth of field observations limit our knowledge, but intraspecific conflicts are known to sometimes result in injury or death	What is known to sometimes result in injury or death?
Feathers are a feature characteristic of birds 	What is a feature characteristic of birds?
"Plumage is regularly moulted; the standard plumage of a bird that has moulted after breeding is known as the ""non-breeding"" plumage, or—in the Humphrey-Parkes terminology—""basic"" plumage; breeding plumages or variations of the basic plumage are known under the Humphrey-Parkes system as ""alternate"" plumages"	What is regularly moulted?
Feathers require maintenance and birds preen or groom them daily, spending an average of around 9% of their daily time on this	How often do birds groom their feathers?
Most birds can fly, which distinguishes them from almost all other vertebrate classes	What distinguishes birds from almost all other vertebrate classes?
Birds that employ many strategies to obtain food or feed on a variety of food items are called generalists, while others that concentrate time and effort on specific food items or have a single strategy to obtain food are considered specialists	What is the term used for birds that employ many strategies to obtain food?
Some species, including frigatebirds, gulls, and skuas, engage in kleptoparasitism, stealing food items from other birds	What is the term for stealing food items from other birds?
Nesting sandgrouse and many plovers carry water to their young by wetting their belly feathers	How do nesting sandgrouse carry water to their young?
The physical condition of feathers are maintained by preening often with the application of secretions from the preen gland	Birds preen often with the application of secretions from which gland?
Before migration, birds substantially increase body fats and reserves and reduce the size of some of their organs	When do birds substantially increase body fats and reduce the size of some of their organs?
Partial migration can form a large percentage of the migration behaviour of birds in some regions; in Australia, surveys found that 44% of non-passerine birds and 32% of passerines were partially migratory	In Australia, what percentage of non-passerine birds were partially migratory
For diurnal migrants, the sun is used to navigate by day, and a stellar compass is used at night	In which type of migration do birds use the sun to navigate by day and a stellar compass at night?
Birds sometimes use plumage to assess and assert social dominance, to display breeding condition in sexually selected species, or to make threatening displays, as in the sunbittern's mimicry of a large predator to ward off hawks and protect young chicks	What do birds sometimes use to assess and assert social dominance?
Calls are used for a variety of purposes, including mate attraction, evaluation of potential mates, bond formation, the claiming and maintenance of territories, the identification of other individuals , and the warning of other birds of potential predators, sometimes with specific information about the nature of the threat	What do birds use for evaluation of potential mates and mate attraction?
The principal benefits of flocking are safety in numbers and increased foraging efficiency	What are the principal benefits of flocking?
"Sleeping birds often use a type of sleep known as vigilant sleep, where periods of rest are interspersed with quick eye-opening ""peeks"", allowing them to be sensitive to disturbances and enable rapid escape from threats"	Sleeping birds often use a type of sleep known as what?
Perching birds have a tendon locking mechanism that helps them hold on to the perch when they are asleep	These types of birds have a tendon locking mechanism.
Ninety-five percent of bird species are socially monogamous	What percent of bird species are socially monogamous?
Breeding usually involves some form of courtship display, typically performed by the male	Which gender typically performs some form of courtship display?
All birds lay amniotic eggs with hard shells made mostly of calcium carbonate	What kind of eggs to all birds lay?
Bird eggs are usually laid in a nest	Where do birds usually lay their eggs?
Incubation, which optimises temperature for chick development, usually begins after the last egg has been laid	What process optimises temperature for chick development?
At one extreme, parental care in megapodes ends at hatching; the newly hatched chick digs itself out of the nest mound without parental assistance and can fend for itself immediately	When does parental care end in megapodes?
Such alloparenting is particularly common among the Corvida, which includes such birds as the true crows, Australian magpie and fairy-wrens, but has been observed in species as different as the rifleman and red kite	Alloparenting is particulary common with what species?
The chicks of the Synthliboramphus murrelets, like the ancient murrelet, leave the nest the night after they hatch, following their parents out to sea, where they are raised away from terrestrial predators	Which chicks leave the nest the night after they hatch?
Brood parasitism, in which an egg-layer leaves her eggs with another individual's brood, is more common among birds than any other type of organism	What is it called when an egg-layer leaves her eggs with another individual's brood?
Birds have evolved a variety of mating behaviors, with the peacock tail being perhaps the most famous example of sexual selection and the Fisherian runaway	What is the most famous example of sexual selection?
Incestuous matings by the purple-crowned fairy wren Malurus coronatus result in severe fitness costs due to inbreeding depression 	What is it called when there is greater than 30 percent reduction in hatchability of eggs?
Cooperative breeding in birds typically occurs when offspring, usually males, delay dispersal from their natal group in order to remain with the family to help rear younger kin	What occurs when offspring delay dispersal from their natal group?
Aquatic birds generally feed by fishing, plant eating, and piracy or kleptoparasitism	What type of birds generally feed by fishing, plant eating or piracy?
Birds are often important to island ecology	What are often important to island ecology?
Since birds are highly visible and common animals, humans have had a relationship with them since the dawn of man	Why have humans had a relationship with birds since the dawn of man?
Domesticated birds raised for meat and eggs, called poultry, are the largest source of animal protein eaten by humans; in 2003, 76 million tons of poultry and 61 million tons of eggs were produced worldwide	What are domesticated birds raised for meat and eggs?
Birds have been domesticated by humans both as pets and for practical purposes	Why have birds been domesticated by humans?
Birds play prominent and diverse roles in religion and mythology	What play prominent roles in religion and mythology?
Birds have featured in culture and art since prehistoric times, when they were represented in early cave paintings	When were birds represented in early cave paintings?
Over a hundred bird species have gone extinct in historical times, although the most dramatic human-caused avian extinctions, eradicating an estimated 750–1800 species, occurred during the human colonisation of Melanesian, Polynesian, and Micronesian islands	How many bird species have gone extinct in historical times?
The Qing dynasty ), officially the Great Qing , also called the Empire of the Great Qing, or the Manchu dynasty, was the last imperial dynasty of China, ruling from 1644 to 1912 with a brief, abortive restoration in 1917	What was the last Chinese dynasty?
The dynasty was founded by the Jurchen Aisin Gioro clan in Manchuria	Who started the Manchun dynasty?
The reign of the Qianlong Emperor saw the apogee and initial decline in prosperity and imperial control	What years did the Qianlong Emperor rule?
T	When was the Taiping rebellion?
T	When was the Dungan Revolt?
Local uprisings starting on October 11, 1911 led to the Xinhai Revolution	What started on October 11, 1911?
"Nurhaci declared himself the ""Bright Khan"" of the Later Jin (lit"	Who named himself the Bright Khan?
"After conquering ""China proper"", the Manchus identified their state as ""China"" , and referred to it as Dulimbai Gurun in Manchu "	After taking the bulk of China what did the Manchuse call their state?
The Qing dynasty was founded not by Han Chinese, who constitute the majority of the Chinese population, but by a sedentary farming people known as the Jurchen, a Tungusic people who lived around the region now comprising the Chinese provinces of Jilin and Heilongjiang	What ethnic group make up the most people in China?
Relocating his court from Jianzhou to Liaodong provided Nurhachi access to more resources; it also brought him in close contact with the Khorchin Mongol domains on the plains of Mongolia	Where did Nurhachi move his court to?
There were too few ethnic Manchus to conquer China, so they gained strength by defeating and absorbing Mongols, but more importantly, adding Han Chinese to the Eight Banners	What group did the Manchus take over to add strength to their numbers?
This was followed by the creation of the first two Han Banners in 1637 	When were the first couple Han Banners founded?
Hong Taiji's bureaucracy was staffed with many Han Chinese, including many newly surrendered Ming officials	Who included newly conquered Ming officials in his government?
Hong Taiji died suddenly in September 1643 without a designated heir	When did Hong Taiji die?
In April 1644, the capital at Beijing was sacked by a coalition of rebel forces led by Li Zicheng, a former minor Ming official, who established a short-lived Shun dynasty	Who raided Beijing in 1644?
Li Zicheng then led a coalition of rebel forces numbering 200,000 to confront Wu Sangui, the general commanding the Ming garrison at Shanhai Pass	How big was Li Zicheng's army?
The newly allied armies captured Beijing on June 6	When did Beijing fall?
Han Chinese Banners were made up of Han Chinese who defected to the Qing up to 1644 and joined the Eight Banners, giving them social and legal privileges in addition to being acculturated to Manchu culture	Who made up the Han Chinese Banners?
The three Liaodong Han Bannermen officers who played a massive role in the conquest of southern China from the Ming were Shang Kexi, Geng Zhongming, and Kong Youde and they governed southern China autonomously as viceroys for the Qing after their conquests	Who were the three Liandong Han bannermen who were instrumental in the taking of southern China?
"First, the Manchus had entered ""China proper"" because Dorgon responded decisively to Wu Sangui's appeal"	Who made Beijing his capital?
Dorgon's controversial July 1645 edict forced adult Han Chinese men to shave the front of their heads and comb the remaining hair into the queue hairstyle which was worn by Manchu men, on pain of death	What did Dorgon declare in July of 1645?
Although his support had been essential to Shunzhi's ascent, Dorgon had through the years centralised so much power in his hands as to become a direct threat to the throne	Who was a threat to Shunzhi's throne?
The Manchus sent Han Bannermen to fight against Koxinga's Ming loyalists in Fujian	Who did the Manchus send to battle Koxinga's troops?
The sixty-one year reign of the Kangxi Emperor was the longest of any Chinese emperor	How long was Kangxi Emperor in power?
The first was the bureaucratic institutions and the neo-Confucian culture which they adopted from earlier dynasties	What type of learning did the early Manchu leaders respect?
The chief of these was Wu Sangui, who was given the provinces of Yunnan and Guizhou, while generals Shang Kexi and Geng Jingzhong were given Guangdong and Fujian provinces respectively	Who was the most important Ming general?
Finally, in 1673, Shang Kexi petitioned Kangxi for permission to retire to his hometown in Liaodong province and nominated his son as his successor	When did Kexi retire?
The ensuing Revolt of the Three Feudatories lasted for eight years	How long did the Revolt of the Three Feudatories last?
The Qing forces were crushed by Wu from 1673-1674	When did Wu destroy the Qing armies?
To extend and consolidate the dynasty's control in Central Asia, the Kangxi Emperor personally led a series of military campaigns against the Dzungars in Outer Mongolia	Where did Kangxi lead an army?
After the Kangxi Emperor's death in the winter of 1722, his fourth son, Prince Yong , became the Yongzheng Emperor	When did Kangxi die?
First, he promoted Confucian orthodoxy and reversed what he saw as his father's laxness by cracking down on unorthodox sects and by decapitating an anti-Manchu writer his father had pardoned	Who did Yongzheng behead?
In 1725 Yongzheng bestowed the hereditary title of Marquis on a descendant of the Ming dynasty Imperial family, Zhu Zhiliang, who received a salary from the Qing government and whose duty was to perform rituals at the Ming tombs, and was also inducted the Chinese Plain White Banner in the Eight Banners	Who did Yongzheng call Marquis?
A team made up entirely of Manchus drew up the Treaty of Kyakhta to solidify the diplomatic understanding with Russia	When was the Treaty of Kyakhta written?
With a total of over 3,400 books, 79,000 chapters, and 36,304 volumes, the Siku Quanshu is the largest collection of books in Chinese history	How many books were in the Siku Quanshu?
The introduction of new crops from the Americas such as the potato and peanut allowed an improved food supply as well, so that the total population of China during the 18th century ballooned from 100 million to 300 million people	What crops helped the Chinese?
However Qing rule saw an massively increasing amount of Han Chinese both illegally and legally streaming into Manchuria and settling down to cultivate land as Manchu landlords desired Han Chinese peasants to rent on their land and grow grain, most Han Chinese migrants were not evicted as they went over the Great Wall and Willow Palisade, during the eighteenth century Han Chinese farmed 500,000 hectares of privately owned land in Manchuria and 203,583 hectares of lands which were part of coutrier stations, noble estates, and Banner lands, in garrisons and towns in Manchuria Han Chinese made up 80% of the population	Where did Hans go to to find land?
Despite officially prohibiting Han Chinese settlement on the Manchu and Mongol lands, by the 18th century the Qing decided to settle Han refugees from northern China who were suffering from famine, floods, and drought into Manchuria and Inner Mongolia so that Han Chinese farmed 500,000 hectares in Manchuria and tens of thousands of hectares in Inner Mongolia by the 1780s	Where were starving Han sent by the Qing?
However, the 18th century saw the European empires gradually expand across the world, as European states developed economies built on maritime trade	Which empires grew during the 18th century?
Demand in Europe for Chinese goods such as silk, tea, and ceramics could only be met if European companies funneled their limited supplies of silver into China	What products from China did Europeans want?
The Qing navy, composed entirely of wooden sailing junks, was severely outclassed by the modern tactics and firepower of the British Royal Navy	Who fought the Qing in the First Opium War?
The Taiping Rebellion in the mid-19th century was the first major instance of anti-Manchu sentiment threatening the stability of the dynasty	What marked the first occurence of anti-Manchu feeling?
The Western powers, largely unsatisfied with the Treaty of Nanjing, gave grudging support to the Qing government during the Taiping and Nian Rebellions	Were the European empires satisfied or unsatisfied by the Treaty of Nanjing?
Ratification of the treaty the following year led to resumption of hostilities and in 1860, with Anglo-French forces marching on Beijing, the emperor and his court fled the capital for the imperial hunting lodge at Rehe	Whed did the British and French invade Beijing?
Chinese generals and officials such as Zuo Zongtang led the suppression of rebellions and stood behind the Manchus	Who put down the rebellions?
In return for promises of support against the British and the French, the Russian Empire took large chunks of territory in the Northeast in 1860	Who did the Chinese lose territory to in exchange for help?
Historians have judged the Qing dynasty's vulnerability and weakness to foreign imperialism in the 19th century to be based mainly on its maritime naval weakness while it achieved military success against westerners on land, the historian Edward L	What was the main problem the Qing had in preventing invasion from Europe?
H	When was the Arrow War?
In 1884, pro-Japanese Koreans in Seoul led the Gapsin Coup	What coup happened in 1884?
These years saw an evolution in the participation of Empress Dowager Cixi in state affairs	What was the name of Xianfeng's concubine?
From 1889, when Guangxu began to rule in his own right, to 1898, the Empress Dowager lived in semi-retirement, spending the majority of the year at the Summer Palace	Where did the Empress Dowager spend most of her time?
Newer, more radical advisers such as Kang Youwei were given positions of influence	Name an advisor to Guangxu?
"Widespread drought in North China, combined with the imperialist designs of European powers and the instability of the Qing government, created conditions that led to the emergence of the Righteous and Harmonious Fists, or ""Boxers"	Where was there a drought?
"To overcome such problems, Empress Dowager Cixi issued an imperial edict in 1901 calling for reform proposals from the governors-general and governors and initiated the era of the dynasty's ""New Policies"", also known as the ""Late Qing Reform"""	What did Cixi do in 1901?
The Guangxu Emperor died on November 14, 1908, and on November 15, 1908, Cixi also died	What year did Guangxu die?
With Zaifeng gone, Yuan Shikai and his Beiyang commanders effectively dominated Qing politics	Who led the Qing?
On 12 February 1912, after rounds of negotiations, Longyu issued an imperial edict bringing about the abdication of the child emperor Puyi	What year did the end of Imperial China occur?
The early Qing emperors adopted the bureaucratic structures and institutions from the preceding Ming dynasty but split rule between Han Chinese and Manchus, with some positions also given to Mongols	Who split the leadership roles in the Qing dynasty?
The formal structure of the Qing government centered on the Emperor as the absolute ruler, who presided over six Boards ), each headed by two presidents and assisted by four vice presidents	Who was the main leader of the Qing?
"In order not to let the routine administration take over the running of the empire, the Qing emperors made sure that all important matters were decided in the ""Inner Court,"" which was dominated by the imperial family and Manchu nobility and which was located in the northern part of the Forbidden City"	"Who controlled the ""Inner Court""?"
During the Qianlong Emperor's reign, for example, members of his family were distinguished by garments with a small circular emblem on the back, whereas Han officials wore clothing with a square emblem	What shape of emblem signified a Han official?
In addition to the six boards, there was a Lifan Yuan unique to the Qing government	Who governed the areas of Tibet and Mongolia?
It was not until 1861 — a year after losing the Second Opium War to the Anglo-French coalition — that the Qing government bowed to foreign pressure and created a proper foreign affairs office known as the Zongli Yamen	What was the foreign service called?
It was established before the fall of the Ming, but it became mature only after 1661, following the death of the Shunzhi Emperor and the accession of his son, the Kangxi Emperor	Which emperor followed Shunzhi?
Qing China reached its largest extent during the 18th century, when it ruled China proper as well as the areas of present-day Northeast China, Inner Mongolia, Outer Mongolia, Xinjiang and Tibet, at approximately 13 million km2 in size	What century did Qing China stretch to its largest?
The Qing organization of provinces was based on the fifteen administrative units set up by the Ming dynasty, later made into eighteen provinces by splitting for example, Huguang into Hubei and Hunan provinces	What two provinces were formed from Huguang?
By the mid-18th century, the Qing had successfully put outer regions such as Inner and Outer Mongolia, Tibet and Xinjiang under its control	When did Tibet become part of Qing China?
With respect to these outer regions, the Qing maintained imperial control, with the emperor acting as Mongol khan, patron of Tibetan Buddhism and protector of Muslims	What title did the emperor hold in Mongolia?
The early Qing military was rooted in the Eight Banners first developed by Nurhaci to organize Jurchen society beyond petty clan affiliations	Who created the Eight Banners?
Banner Armies were organized along ethnic lines, namely Manchu and Mongol, but included non-Manchu bondservants registered under the household of their Manchu masters	How were Banner's organized?
Early during the Taiping Rebellion, Qing forces suffered a series of disastrous defeats culminating in the loss of the regional capital city of Nanjing in 1853	What caused the Qing armies to lose many battles?
"Being a classically educated official, he took his blueprint for the Xiang Army from the Ming general Qi Jiguang, who, because of the weakness of regular Ming troops, had decided to form his own ""private"" army to repel raiding Japanese pirates in the mid-16th century"	Who inspired Zeng Guofan in creating his army?
Although the Banners and Green Standard armies lingered on as a drain on resources, henceforth the Yongying corps became the Qing government's de facto first-line troops	What entity became the main Qing troops?
In 1860, during the Second Opium War, the capital Beijing was captured and the Summer Palace sacked by a relatively small Anglo-French coalition force numbering 25,000	When was the Second Opium War?
Losing the First Sino-Japanese War of 1894–1895 was a watershed	Who beat the Chinese in the First Sino-Japanese War?
The most significant fact of early and mid-Qing social history was population growth	What happened in early and middle Qing history?
According to statute, Qing society was divided into relatively closed estates, of which in most general terms there were five	How many estates were there in Qing society?
China continued to export tea, silk and manufactures, creating a large, favorable trade balance with the West	What did China export?
To give people more incentives to participate in the market, they reduced the tax burden in comparison with the late Ming, and replaced the corvée system with a head tax used to hire laborers	What did the Qing do to reform land ownership?
By the end of the 18th century the population had risen to 300 million from approximately 150 million during the late Ming dynasty	What was China's population at the end of the 18th century?
The Qing emperors were generally adept at poetry and often skilled in painting, and offered their patronage to Confucian culture	What arts were the Qing emperors good at?
The nineteenth century saw such innovations as the Shanghai School and the Lingnan School which used the technical skills of tradition to set the stage for modern painting	What two schools of art were created in the 19th century?
Poetry continued as a mark of the cultivated gentleman, but women wrote in larger and larger numbers and poets came from all walks of life	What was the sign of a gentleman?
The gentleman gourmet, such as Yuan Mei, applied aesthetic standards to the art of cooking, eating, and appreciation of tea at a time when New World crops and products entered everyday life	Who wrote the Suiyuan Shidan?
The indigenous peoples of the Americas are the descendants of the pre-Columbian inhabitants of the Americas	Who are the indigenous people of the Americas descended from?
According to the prevailing theories of the settlement of the Americas, migrations of humans from Asia to the Americas took place via Beringia, a land bridge which connected the two continents across what is now the Bering Strait	Where do most theories today attribute the settlement of the Americas as originating from?
"Application of the term ""Indian"" originated with Christopher Columbus, who, in his search for Asia, thought that he had arrived in the East Indies"	What incorrect term for the indigenous population originated with Christopher Columbus? 
Although some indigenous peoples of the Americas were traditionally hunter-gatherers—and many, especially in Amazonia, still are—many groups practiced aquaculture and agriculture	What were many of the indigenous people of the Americas traditionally?
Many parts of the Americas are still populated by indigenous peoples; some countries have sizable populations, especially Belize, Bolivia, Chile, Ecuador, Greenland, Guatemala, Mexico, and Peru	Where are there still populations of indigenous peoples?
The specifics of Paleo-Indian migration to and throughout the Americas, including the exact dates and routes traveled, provide the subject of ongoing research and discussion	How Paleo-Indians migrated to the Americas is still a matter for what type of research?
Indigenous genetic studies suggest that the first inhabitants of the Americas share a single ancestral population, one that developed in isolation, conjectured to be Beringia	What do studies on the genetics of the first American inhabitants conclude about their ancestral population?
The data indicate that the individual was from a population directly ancestral to present South American and Central American Native American populations, and closely related to present North American Native American populations	What does the data indicate about the population the individual was from?
While technically referring to the era before Christopher Columbus' voyages of 1492 to 1504, in practice the term usually includes the history of American indigenous cultures until Europeans either conquered or significantly influenced them, even if this happened decades or even centuries after Columbus' initial landing	The term Pre-Columbian technically refers to which era?
Many pre-Columbian civilizations established characteristics and hallmarks which included permanent or urban settlements, agriculture, civic and monumental architecture, and complex societal hierarchies	Urban settlements and complex societal hierarchies are just some of the hallmarks established by which civilizations?
According to both indigenous American and European accounts and documents, American civilizations at the time of European encounter had achieved many accomplishments	What had the civilizations in the Americas achieved by the time the Europeans encountered them?
The European colonization of the Americas forever changed the lives and cultures of the peoples of the continents	What did the European colonization forever change?
The first indigenous group encountered by Columbus were the 250,000 Taínos of Hispaniola who represented the dominant culture in the Greater Antilles and the Bahamas	Who was the first group of indigenous people Columbus encountered?
Following years of mistreatment, the Taínos began to adopt suicidal behaviors, with women aborting or killing their infants and men jumping from the cliffs or ingesting untreated cassava, a violent poison	What behaviors did the Taínos begin to adopt after years of mistreatment?
Various theories for the decline of the Native American populations emphasize epidemic diseases, conflicts with Europeans, and conflicts among warring tribes	What was the overwhelming reason for the decline of Native American populations?
Contact with European diseases such as smallpox and measles killed between 50 and 67 per cent of the Aboriginal population of North America in the first hundred years after the arrival of Europeans	What percent of the Aboriginal population of North America was killed in the first hundred years after first contact by smallpox and measles?
The Spanish Empire and other Europeans brought horses to the Americas	What Empire brought horses to the Americas?
Over the course of thousands of years, American indigenous peoples domesticated, bred and cultivated a large array of plant species	What did the indigenous peoples of America cultivate over the course of thousands of years?
The South American highlands were a center of early agriculture	Where was a center of early agriculture?
Natives of North America began practicing farming approximately 4,000 years ago, late in the Archaic period of North American cultures	When did the North American natives begin farming?
Many crops first domesticated by indigenous Americans are now produced and used globally	What global industry owes its existence to having been domesticated by indigenous Americans?
Cultural practices in the Americas seem to have been shared mostly within geographical zones where unrelated peoples adopted similar technologies and social organizations	What did geographical zones encourage the sharing of?
The development of writing is counted among the many achievements and innovations of pre-Columbian American cultures	What was one of the many achievements of the American cultures?
The Maya writing system was a combination of phonetic symbols and logograms	What writing system combined phonetic symbols and logograms?
Spanish mendicants in the sixteenth century taught indigenous scribes in their communities to write their languages in Latin letters and there is a large number of local-level documents in Nahuatl, Zapotec, Mixtec, and Yucatec Maya from the colonial era, many of which were part of lawsuits and other legal matters	Who taught indigenous scribes to write their languages?
Native American music in North America is almost entirely monophonic, but there are notable exceptions	What characteristic did the majority of Native American music have?
The music of the indigenous peoples of Central Mexico and Central America was often pentatonic	What feature did the music of Central America have?
Visual arts by indigenous peoples of the Americas comprise a major category in the world art collection	What comprises a major category in the world art collection?
In 2005, Argentina's indigenous population numbered about 600,329 (1	What was the number of indigenous people in Argentina as of 2005?
In Bolivia, a 62% majority of residents over the age of 15 self-identify as belonging to an indigenous people, while another 3	What percentage of the residents in Bolivia self-identify as belonging to an indigenous people?
Large numbers of Bolivian highland peasants retained indigenous language, culture, customs, and communal organization throughout the Spanish conquest and the post-independence period	Who retained indigenous language and culture after the Spanish conquest?
"Morales began work on his ""indigenous autonomy"" policy, which he launched in the eastern lowlands department on August 3, 2009, making Bolivia the first country in the history of South America to affirm the right of indigenous people to govern themselves"	Who came up with a policy for indigenous autonomy?
4% of Brazil's population, or about 700,000 people, even though millions of Brazilians have some indigenous ancestry	How many Brazillians have some indigenous ancestry?
"Aboriginal peoples in Canada comprise the First Nations, Inuit and Métis; the descriptors ""Indian"" and ""Eskimo"" are falling into disuse, and other than in neighboring Alaska"	First Nations and Inuit are labels for what peoples in Canada?
Although not without conflict, European/Canadian early interactions with First Nations and Inuit populations were relatively peaceful compared to the experience of native peoples in the United States	What were the early interactions between First Nations and Europeans?
6% of the Chilean population, including the Rapanui of Easter Island, was indigenous, although most show varying degrees of mixed heritage	What is the name for the Polynesian people living on Easter Island?
Ecuador was the site of many indigenous cultures, and civilizations of different proportions	What was Ecuador the site of?
4% of Ecuador's Indigenous population are Highland Quichuas living in the valleys of the Sierra region	Where do the Highland Quichuas live?
Much of El Salvador was home to the Pipil, the Lenca, Xinca, and Kakawira	El Salvador was home to which indigenous peoples?
About five percent of the population are of full-blooded indigenous descent, but upwards to eighty percent more or the majority of Hondurans are mestizo or part-indigenous with European admixture, and about ten percent are of indigenous or African descent	How much of the population of Honduras is of full-blooded indigenous descent?
The territory of modern-day Mexico was home to numerous indigenous civilizations prior to the arrival of the Spanish conquistadores: The Olmecs, who flourished from between 1200 BCE to about 400 BCE in the coastal regions of the Gulf of Mexico; the Zapotecs and the Mixtecs, who held sway in the mountains of Oaxaca and the Isthmus of Tehuantepec; the Maya in the Yucatan ; the Purépecha in present-day Michoacán and surrounding areas, and the Aztecs/Mexica, who, from their central capital at Tenochtitlan, dominated much of the centre and south of the country when Hernán Cortés first landed at Veracruz	What was Mexico home to prior to the arrival of the Spaniards?
"The ""General Law of Linguistic Rights of the Indigenous Peoples"" grants all indigenous languages spoken in Mexico, regardless of the number of speakers, the same validity as Spanish in all territories in which they are spoken, and indigenous peoples are entitled to request some public services and documents in their native languages"	What grants all indigenous languages spoken in Mexico validity? 
About 5% of the Nicaraguan population are indigenous	What percentage of the Nicaraguan population are indigenous?
Indigenous population in Peru make up around 45%	What percentage of Peru's population is indigenous?
"Indigenous peoples in what is now the contiguous United States, including their descendants, are commonly called ""American Indians"", or simply ""Indians"" domestically, or ""Native Americans"" by the USCB"	"Where are the indigenous peoples referred to as ""American Indians""?"
A minority of US Native Americans live in land units called Indian reservations	Where do a minority of US Native Americans live?
Most Venezuelans have some indigenous heritage, but the indigenous population make up only around 2% of the total population	What do most Venezuelans have?
The Native American name controversy is an ongoing dispute over the acceptable ways to refer to the indigenous peoples of the Americas and to broad subsets thereof, such as those living in a specific country or sharing certain cultural attributes	What remains a controversy regarding how to refer to the indigenous peoples of the Americas?
However, since the 20th century, indigenous peoples in the Americas have been more vocal about the ways they wish to be referred to, pressing for the elimination of terms widely considered to be obsolete, inaccurate, or racist	What have the peoples in the Americas been more vocal about since the 20th century?
In recent years, there has been a rise of indigenous movements in the Americas 	Where has there been a rise of indigenous movements in recent years?
Representatives from indigenous and rural organizations from major South American countries, including Bolivia, Ecuador, Colombia, Chile and Brazil, started a forum in support of Morales' legal process of change	Who started a forum in support of Morales' legal process of change?
Genetic history of indigenous peoples of the Americas primarily focus on Human Y-chromosome DNA haplogroups and Human mitochondrial DNA haplogroups	What does the genetic history of indigenous peoples of the Americas primarily focus on?
Genetic studies of mitochondrial DNA of Amerindians and some Siberian and Central Asian peoples also revealed that the gene pool of the Turkic-speaking peoples of Siberia such as Altaians, Khakas, Shors and Soyots, living between the Altai and Lake Baikal along the Sayan mountains, are genetically closest to Amerindians	Who have studies of the mtDNA of Turkic-speaking peoples shown they're closest to genetically?
Human settlement of the New World occurred in stages from the Bering sea coast line, with an initial 15,000 to 20,000-year layover on Beringia for the small founding population	What did human settlement of the New World occur in?
"A 2013 study in Nature reported that DNA found in the 24,000-year-old remains of a young boy from the archaeological Mal'ta-Buret' culture suggest that up to one-third of the indigenous Americans may have ancestry that can be traced back to western Eurasians, who may have ""had a more north-easterly distribution 24,000 years ago than commonly thought"""	When was a study about the DNA of a young boy published in Nature?
A route through Beringia is seen as more likely than the Solutrean hypothesis	What is more likely than the Solutrean hypothesis?
Red is the color at the end of the spectrum of visible light next to orange and opposite violet	What spectrum of light is red within?
In nature, the red color of blood comes from hemoglobin, the iron-containing protein found in the red blood cells of all vertebrates	From where does the color red in blood come from?
A red dye called Kermes was made beginning in the Neolithic Period by drying and then crushing the bodies of the females of a tiny scale insect in the genus Kermes, primarily Kermes vermilio	During what period did people use Kermes vermilio to make red dye?
"In the Book of Exodus, God instructs Moses to have the Israelites bring him an offering including cloth ""of blue, and purple, and scarlet"	In which book of the Bible did God reference gifts of Blue Purple and Scarlet?
""" The ancient Egyptians began manufacturing pigments in about 4000 BC"	When did Egyptians start to make red pigment?
In Ancient Rome, Tyrian purple was the color of the Emperor, but red had an important religious symbolism	Which color was said to be the Emperor's color in ancient Rome?
The pigment used for many of the murals was called vermilion, and it came from the mineral cinnabar, a common ore of mercury	What pigment was used to paint villas in ancient Rome?
In Western Europe, Emperor Charlemagne painted his palace red as a very visible symbol of his authority, and wore red shoes at his coronation	Which European emperor painted their palace red?
Red clothing was a sign of status and wealth	What status did the wearing of red in medieval times represent?
It was believed that the world was composed of five elements: metal, wood, water, fire and earth, and that each had a color	How many elements did the Chinese philosophers think the world was made of?
During the Song dynasty , officials of the top three ranks wore purple clothes; those of the fourth and fifth wore bright red; those of the sixth and seventh wore green; and the eighth and ninth wore blue	During what years did the Song dynasty occur?
In the Tang and Song Dynasties, gates of palaces were usually painted red, and nobles often painted their entire mansion red	Who painted their mansions red during the Song and Tang dynasties?
The Rubia plant was used to make the most common dye; it produced an orange-red or brick red color used to dye the clothes of merchants and artisans	What plant was used to make the most used red dye in Venice?
But early in the 16th century, a brilliant new red appeared in Europe	In what century did a new kind of red pigment arrive in Europe from the Aztec Empire?
The painters of the early Renaissance used two traditional lake pigments, made from mixing dye with either chalk or alum, kermes lake, made from kermes insects, and madder lake, made from the rubia tinctorum plant	What was kermes lake made from?
During the French Revolution, Red became a symbol of liberty and personal freedom used by the Jacobins and other more radical parties	During which revolution was red a symbol of liberty?
One popular color imported into Europe from Turkey and India in the 18th and early 19th century was Turkey red, known in France as rouge d'Adrinople	What was Turkey red called in France?
The 19th century also saw the use of red in art to create specific emotions, not just to imitate nature	In which century did color theory begin to be systematically studied?
Matisse was also one of the first 20th-century artists to make color the central element of the painting, chosen to evoke emotions	During which century did Matisse work?
In 1962 he donated to Harvard University a series of large murals of the Passion of Christ whose predominant colors were dark pink and deep crimson	In what year did Rothko donate Passion of Christ murals?
Unlike vermilion or red ochre, made from minerals, red lake pigments are made by mixing organic dyes, made from insects or plants, with white chalk or alum	What was red ochre composed of?
In modern color theory, also known as the RGB color model, red, green and blue are additive primary colors	Which colors are part of the RGB model?
The intensity of each component is measured on a scale of zero to 255, which means the complete list includes 16,777,216 distinct colors and shades	Over what numerical scale is color measured on a computer screen?
As a ray of white sunlight travels through the atmosphere to the eye, some of the colors are scattered out of the beam by air molecules and airborne particles due to Rayleigh scattering, changing the final color of the beam that is seen	What type of scattering is responsible for the shift in the color of sunlight?
Lasers emitting in the red region of the spectrum have been available since the invention of the ruby laser in 1960	When was the first ruby laser invented?
During the summer growing season, phosphate is at a high level	At which period of the year are phosphates high?
It is characterized by high levels of the reddish pigment pheomelanin and relatively low levels of the dark pigment eumelanin	What pigment accounts for the majority of color in red hair?
For example, in mandrills, red coloration of the face is greatest in alpha males, increasingly less prominent in lower ranking subordinates, and directly correlated with levels of testosterone	In alpha male mandrills what party of the body is most red according to their rank?
Surveys show that red is the color most associated with courage	What trait do people most commonly link red with?
Saint Valentine, a Roman Catholic Bishop or priest who was martyred in about 296 AD, seems to have had no known connection with romantic love, but the day of his martyrdom on the Roman Catholic calendar, Saint Valentine's Day , became, in the 14th century, an occasion for lovers to send messages to each other	When was Saint Valentine martyred?
Scarlet academic gowns are worn by new Doctors of Philosophy at degree ceremonies at Oxford University and other schools	What color gowns are generally worn by recent Doctors of Philosophy at Oxford?
In the Middle Ages, a red flag announced that the defenders of a town or castle would fight to defend it, and a red flag hoisted by a warship meant they would show no mercy to their enemy	What did a red flag signal in the Middle Ages?
It was standarized as the international color at the Vienna Convention on Road Signs and Signals of 1968	In what city did the standardization of red as a color of stop lights occur?
Red is used in modern fashion much as it was used in Medieval painting; to attract the eyes of the viewer to the person who is supposed to be the center of attention	In what way is red used in contemporary fashion?
"""So he carried me away in the spirit into the wilderness: and I saw a woman sit upon a scarlet coloured beast, full of names of blasphemy, having seven heads and ten horns"	How many heads did the scarlet beast which a woman sat on have?
In China, red is the symbol of fire and the south 	Which cardinal direction is signified by red in China?
In Central Africa, Ndembu warriors rub themselves with red paint during celebrations	What central African warriors are said to cover themselves in red for celebrations?
The Cincinnati Red Stockings are the oldest professional baseball team, dating back to 1869	When did the Cincinnati Red Stockings come to be?
Benfica primarily wear red jerseys	What color jersey does Bayern Munich wear?
The use of red has similar connotations from country to country: the blood, sacrifice, and courage of those who defended their country; the sun and the hope and warmth it brings; and the sacrifice of Christ's blood are a few examples	In Christian nations what does the color red often become associated with?
Red, blue, and white are also the Pan-Slavic colors adopted by the Slavic solidarity movement of the late nineteenth century	When did the Slavic solidarity movement choose red blue and white as their colors?
Red, white, and black were the colors of the German Empire from 1870 to 1918, and as such they came to be associated with German nationalism	During what time period did the German Empire use the colors red white and black?
The red flag appeared as a political symbol during the French Revolution, after the fall of Bastille	After the demise of what was the red flag linked to the French Revolution?
Karl Marx published the Communist Manifesto in February 1848, with little attention	When was the Communist Manifesto first created?
In 1870, following the stunning defeat of the French Army by the Germans in the Franco-Prussian War, French workers and socialist revolutionaries seized Paris and created the Paris Commune	Who was defeated in the Franco-Prussian war?
"In the United States, political commentators often refer to the ""red states"", which traditionally vote for Republican candidates in presidential elections, and ""blue states"", which vote for the Democratic candidate"	In the USA red states are known to do what, in terms of politics?
The Communist Party of China, founded in 1920, adopted the red flag and hammer and sickle emblem of the Soviet Union, which became the national symbols when the Party took power in China in 1949	In what year was the Community Party of China created?
After the Communist Party of China took power in 1949, the flag of China became a red flag with a large star symbolizing the Communist Party, and smaller stars symbolizing workers, peasants, the urban middle class and rural middle class	What did the biggest star on the flag of China in 1949 represent?
Egypt , officially the Arab Republic of Egypt, is a transcontinental country spanning the northeast corner of Africa and southwest corner of Asia, via a land bridge formed by the Sinai Peninsula	What 2 continents meet at Egypt?
Egypt has one of the longest histories of any modern country, arising in the tenth millennium BC as one of the world's first nation states	How far back does Egypt's history date back?
With over 90 million inhabitants, Egypt is the most populous country in North Africa and the Arab World, the third-most populous in Africa , and the fifteenth-most populous in the world	How many inhabitants does Egypt have?
In 2011, longtime President Hosni Mubarak stepped down amid mass protests	What leader stepped down in 2011?
Miṣr or Egyptian Arabic pronunciation: ; Arabic: مِصر‎) is the Classical Quranic Arabic and modern official name of Egypt, while Maṣr ; Egyptian Arabic: مَصر) is the local pronunciation in Egyptian Arabic	What is the Egyptian Arabic name for Egypt?
By about 6000 BC, a Neolithic culture rooted in the Nile Valley	During 6000 BC what area was occupied by a Neolithic culture?
The First Intermediate Period ushered in a time of political upheaval for about 150 years	How long was the upheval of the first Intermediate period?
1550–1070 BC began with the Eighteenth Dynasty, marking the rise of Egypt as an international power that expanded during its greatest extension to an empire as far south as Tombos in Nubia, and included parts of the Levant in the east	What year were the New Kingdom in control?
In 525 BC, the powerful Achaemenid Persians, led by Cambyses II, began their conquest of Egypt, eventually capturing the pharaoh Psamtik III at the battle of Pelusium	Who took control of Egypt in 525 BC?
The Ptolemaic Kingdom was a powerful Hellenistic state, extending from southern Syria in the east, to Cyrene to the west, and south to the frontier with Nubia	What were the reaches of the Ptolemaic Kingdom?
The last ruler from the Ptolemaic line was Cleopatra VII, who committed suicide following the burial of her lover Mark Antony who had died in her arms , after Octavian had captured Alexandria and her mercenary forces had fled	Who was last ruler of Ptolemaic Kingdom?
The Byzantines were able to regain control of the country after a brief Sasanian Persian invasion early in the 7th century amidst the Byzantine–Sasanian War of 602–628 during which they established a new short-lived province for ten years known as Sasanian Egypt, until 639–42, when Egypt was invaded and conquered by the Islamic Empire by the Muslim Arabs	Who took control of Egypt from Sasanian Persian rule?
Muhammad Ali Pasha evolved the military from one that convened under the tradition of the corvée to a great modernised army	Who modernized Egyptian army?
The Suez Canal, built in partnership with the French, was completed in 1869	Who partnered with Egypt to build Suez Canal?
The new government drafted and implemented a constitution in 1923 based on a parliamentary system	When was new constitution drafted?
In 1958, Egypt and Syria formed a sovereign union known as the United Arab Republic	In what year did Egypt and Syria Form a sovereign union?
In mid May 1967, the Soviet Union issued warnings to Nasser of an impending Israeli attack on Syria	Who warned of impending Israeli attack on Syria in May 1967?
At the time of the fall of the Egyptian monarchy in the early 1950s, less than half a million Egyptians were considered upper class and rich, four million middle class and 17 million lower class and poor	How many rich, upper class were in Egypt in 1950s?
In 1970, President Nasser died and was succeeded by Anwar Sadat	When did Nasser die?
In 1975, Sadat shifted Nasser's economic policies and sought to use his popularity to reduce government regulations and encourage foreign investment through his program of Infitah	What was encouraged through Infitah?
During Mubarak's reign, the political scene was dominated by the National Democratic Party, which was created by Sadat in 1978	What group dominated the political scene when Mubarak was in power?
Constitutional changes voted on 19 March 2007 prohibited parties from using religion as a basis for political activity, allowed the drafting of a new anti-terrorism law, authorised broad police powers of arrest and surveillance, and gave the president power to dissolve parliament and end judicial election monitoring	What did constitutional changes in 2007 prohibit?
On 18 January 2014, the interim government instituted a new constitution following a referendum in which 98	When was interim government instituted?
Most of Egypt's rain falls in the winter months	When does most of Egypts rain fall?
The plan stated that the following numbers of species of different groups had been recorded from Egypt: algae , animals , fungi , monera , plants , protozoans 	How many species of plants were recorded in Egypt?
The House of Representatives, whose members are elected to serve five-year terms, specialises in legislation	What branch of government are the House of Representatives focused on?
In the 1980s, 1990s, and 2000s, terrorist attacks in Egypt became numerous and severe, and began to target Christian Copts, foreign tourists and government officials	Who were primary targets of Egypt terrorist attacks?
On 18 January 2014, the interim government successfully institutionalised a more secular constitution	When was new constitution institutionalised?
The Pew Forum on Religion & Public Life ranks Egypt as the fifth worst country in the world for religious freedom	Where does Egypt rank for Religious freedom according to Pew Forum?
As a result of modernisation efforts over the years, Egypt's healthcare system has made great strides forward	What trend has Egypt healthcare made recently?
Cairo University is ranked as 401-500 according to the Academic Ranking of World Universities and 551-600 according to QS World University Rankings	According to QS World University Rankings where does Cairo University rank?
Coptic Christians face discrimination at multiple levels of the government, ranging from disproportionate representation in government ministries to laws that limit their ability to build or repair churches	What do Coptic Christians face?
Egypt actively practices capital punishment	what controversial practice does Egypt actively administer as punishment?
This resulted in a sharp increase in mass death sentences that arose criticism from the US president Barack Obama and the General Secretary of the UN, Ban Ki Moon	What US president was critical of Egypt's repression of Muslim Brotherhood?
Nevertheless, ties between the two countries have partially soured since the July 2013 military coup that deposed Islamist president Mohamed Morsi, with the Obama administration condemning Egypt's violent crackdown on the Muslim Brotherhood and its supporters, and cancelling future military exercises involving the two countries	What event soured relations of US and Egypt in 2013?
Equipment from the former Soviet Union is being progressively replaced by more modern US, French, and British equipment, a significant portion of which is built under license in Egypt, such as the M1 Abrams tank	Equipment from what country is being replaced?
The permanent headquarters of the Arab League are located in Cairo and the body's secretary general has traditionally been Egyptian	Where is the Arab League headquarters?
Following the 1973 war and the subsequent peace treaty, Egypt became the first Arab nation to establish diplomatic relations with Israel	What country has Egypt famously had peace with since 1973 treaty?
Egypt's economy depends mainly on agriculture, media, petroleum imports, natural gas, and tourism; there are also more than three million Egyptians working abroad, mainly in Saudi Arabia, the Persian Gulf and Europe	What areas of economy is Egypt dependent on?
Egypt has a developed energy market based on coal, oil, natural gas, and hydro power	What is Egypts energy market based upon?
Economic conditions have started to improve considerably, after a period of stagnation, due to the adoption of more liberal economic policies by the government as well as increased revenues from tourism and a booming stock market	What has been the trend lately in the Egypt economy?
Foreign direct investment in Egypt increased considerably before the removal of Hosni Mubarak, exceeding $6 billion in 2006, due to economic liberalisation and privatisation measures taken by minister of investment Mahmoud Mohieddin	How much had FDI increased to in 2006?
Although one of the main obstacles still facing the Egyptian economy is the limited trickle down of wealth to the average population, many Egyptians criticise their government for higher prices of basic goods while their standards of living or purchasing power remains relatively stagnant	To what extent does wealth reach from affluent down to average population?
Egypt's most prominent multinational companies are the Orascom Group and Raya Contact Center	What are Egypt's 2 most prominent multinational compnaies?
Egypt has a wide range of beaches situated on the Mediterranean and the Red Sea that extend to over 3,000 km	Where are Egyptian beaches situated?
Egypt was producing 691,000 bbl/d of oil and 2,141	How much oil is Egypt producing in a day?
The Suez Canal is an artificial sea-level waterway in Egypt considered the most important centre of the maritime transport in the Middle East, connecting the Mediterranean Sea and the Red Sea	What is consideredt the most important part of maritime transport in middle east?
11 mi) long, 24 m deep and 205 metres wide as of 2010	How deep is Suez canal?
Drinking water supply and sanitation in Egypt is characterised by both achievements and challenges	What basic part of civilization has been characterized by achievement and challenges?
Partly because of low sanitation coverage about 17,000 children die each year because of diarrhoea	Because of low sanitation coverage 17,000 Egyptian children to die each year from what condition?
Ethnic Egyptians are by far the largest ethnic group in the country, constituting 91% of the total population	What is the largest ethnic group in Egypt?
Egypt also hosts an unknown number of refugees and asylum seekers, estimated to be between 500,000 and 3 million	Approximately how many rufugees and asylum seekers are in Egypt?
The official language of the Republic is Modern Standard Arabic	What is official language of Egypt?
Although Egypt was a majority Christian country before the 7th Century, after Islam arrived, the country was slowly Islamified to become a majority Muslim country	Prior to 7th century, what was primary religion of Egypt?
Of the Christian minority in Egypt over 90% belong to the native Coptic Orthodox Church of Alexandria, an Oriental Orthodox Christian Church	What church do 90% of Christian minority in Egypt belong?
Egypt recognises only three religions: Islam, Christianity, and Judaism	What 3 religions does Egypt recognise?
Egyptian blue, also known as calcium copper silicate is a pigment used by Egyptians for thousands of years	What color was frequently used in Egyptian designs?
Indeed, the Egyptians were the first culture to develop literature as we know it today, that is, the book	Who was the first to develop literature?
In 1936, Studio Misr, financed by industrialist Talaat Harb, emerged as the leading Egyptian studio, a role the company retained for three decades	In what year was Studio Misr founded?
Egyptian music is a rich mixture of indigenous, Mediterranean, African and Western elements	What elements mix for Egyptian music?
It has been in contact with many other civilisations and nations and has been through so many eras, starting from prehistoric age to the modern age, passing through so many ages such as; Pharonic, Roman, Greek, Islamic and many other ages	What is the oldest era in Egypt?
Some consider koshari to be the national dish	What is koshari?
Football is the most popular national sport of Egypt	What is the most popular sport in Egypt?
the last one was 2009 FIFA U-20 World Cup which took place between 24 September - 16 October 2009	What was the last international competition Egypt hosted?
Mosaic has a long history, starting in Mesopotamia in the 3rd millennium BC	What millennium did Mosaic start?
Bronze age pebble mosaics have been found at Tiryns; mosaics of the 4th century BC are found in the Macedonian palace-city of Aegae, and the 4th-century BC mosaic of The Beauty of Durrës discovered in Durrës, Albania in 1916, is an early figural example; the Greek figural style was mostly formed in the 3rd century BC	The pebble mosaics found at Tiyns are from what age?
Greek figural mosaics could have been copied or adapted paintings, a far more prestigious artform, and the style was enthusiastically adopted by the Romans so that large floor mosaics enriched the floors of Hellenistic villas and Roman dwellings from Britain to Dura-Europos	What common artform is far more prestigious than mosaic?
There were two main techniques in Greco-Roman mosaic: opus vermiculatum used tiny tesserae, typically cubes of 4 millimeters or less, and was produced in workshops in relatively small panels which were transported to the site glued to some temporary support	What type of mosaic uses small tesserae?
In Rome, Nero and his architects used mosaics to cover some surfaces of walls and ceilings in the Domus Aurea, built 64 AD, and wall mosaics are also found at Pompeii and neighbouring sites	Which caesar hired builders to construct the Domus Aurea?
The mosaics of the Villa Romana del Casale near Piazza Armerina in Sicily are the largest collection of late Roman mosaics in situ in the world, and are protected as a UNESCO World Heritage Site	In what area of Italy is the largest collection of mosaics in the world?
In 1913 the Zliten mosaic, a Roman mosaic famous for its many scenes from gladiatorial contests, hunting and everyday life, was discovered in the Libyan town of Zliten	What scenes are depicted on the Zliten mosaic?
With the building of Christian basilicas in the late 4th century, wall and ceiling mosaics were adopted for Christian uses	Around what century were mosaics adapted for Christian churches?
Milan also served as the capital of the western empire in the 4th century	Which city besides Ravenna served as the capital of the Western Roman Empire?
In the 5th-century Ravenna, the capital of the Western Roman Empire, became the center of late Roman mosaic art	In the 5th century what was the capital of the Western Roman Empire?
After 539 Ravenna was reconquered by the Romans in the form of the Eastern Roman Empire and became the seat of the Exarchate of Ravenna	When was Ravenna conquered by the Eastern Roman Empire?
The mosaic pavement of the Vrina Plain basilica of Butrint, Albania appear to pre-date that of the Baptistery by almost a generation, dating to the last quarter of the 5th or the first years of the 6th century	The floor mosaic in Butrint is how much older than that of the Baptistry?
The abundant variety of natural life depicted in the Butrint mosaics celebrates the richness of God’s creation; some elements also have specific connotations	What was depicted on the Butrint mosaics in abundance?
Christian mosaic art also flourished in Rome, gradually declining as conditions became more difficult in the Early Middle Ages	When did conditions become difficult for mosaic art in Rome?
In the 7th–9th centuries Rome fell under the influence of Byzantine art, noticeable on the mosaics of Santa Prassede, Santa Maria in Domnica, Sant'Agnese fuori le Mura, Santa Cecilia in Trastevere, Santi Nereo e Achilleo and the San Venanzio chapel of San Giovanni in Laterano	During which centuries did ROme fall under the influence of Byzantine art?
Important fragments survived from the mosaic floor of the Great Palace of Constantinople which was commissioned during Justinian's reign	When were the mosaics at the Great Palace of Constantinople commissioned?
Very few early Byzantine mosaics survived the Iconoclastic destruction of the 8th century	How many Byzantine mosaics survived past the 8th century?
In the Iconoclastic era, figural mosaics were also condemned as idolatry	Why were mosaics destroyed in the iconoclastic era?
The Nea Moni Monastery on Chios was established by Constantine Monomachos in 1043–1056	Where is the Nea Moni Monastery located?
Another great undertaking by Constantine Monomachos was the restoration of the Church of the Holy Sepulchre in Jerusalem between 1042 and 1048	Who restored the Church of the Holy Sepulchre in the 1040's?
The 9th- and 10th-century mosaics of the Hagia Sophia in Constantinople are truly classical Byzantine artworks	When were the Byzantine mosaics of the Hagia Sophia created?
There are very few existing mosaics from the Komnenian period but this paucity must be due to accidents of survival and gives a misleading impression	Why are there so few surviving mosaics from the Komnenian period?
In these icons the small tesserae were set on wax or resin on a wooden panel	How big were the tesserae in the Komnenian period miniature mosaic icons?
The Church of the Holy Apostles in Thessaloniki was built in 1310–14	When was the Church of the Holy Apostles built? 
The greatest mosaic work of the Palaeologan renaissance in art is the decoration of the Chora Church in Constantinople	where is the greatest mosaic work of the renaissance?
The last great period of Roman mosaic art was the 12th–13th century when Rome developed its own distinctive artistic style, free from the strict rules of eastern tradition and with a more realistic portrayal of figures in the space	When was the last period of Roman mosaic art?
Peter's is attributed to Giotto di Bondone	Who created the Navicella mosaic in the Old St. Peter's church?
The heyday of mosaic making in Sicily was the age of the independent Norman kingdom in the 12th century	when was the height of mosaic art in sicily?
The Martorana church looked originally even more Byzantine although important parts were later demolished	When was the Martorana church decorated?
The Monreale mosaics constitute the largest decoration of this kind in Italy, covering 0,75 hectares with at least 100 million glass and stone tesserae	What is the name of the largest mosaics in Italy?
Southern Italy was also part of the Norman kingdom but great mosaics did not survive in this area except the fine mosaic pavement of the Otranto Cathedral from 1166, with mosaics tied into a tree of life, mostly still preserved	What region of italy was part of the Norman empire?
In parts of Italy, which were under eastern artistic influences, like Sicily and Venice, mosaic making never went out of fashion in the Middle Ages	Which area in Italy besides Sicily did mosaic art not go out of fashion in the middle ages?
Other important Venetian mosaics can be found in the Cathedral of Santa Maria Assunta in Torcello from the 12th century, and in the Basilical of Santi Maria e Donato in Murano with a restored apse mosaic from the 12th century and a beautiful mosaic pavement 	Where is the Cathedral of Santa Maria Assunta?
The Abbot of Monte Cassino, Desiderius sent envoys to Constantinople some time after 1066 to hire expert Byzantine mosaicists for the decoration of the rebuilt abbey church	Who hired Byzantine experts to decorate a rebuilt abbey church?
Sometimes not only church interiors but façades were also decorated with mosaics in Italy like in the case of the St Mark's Basilica in Venice , the Cathedral of Orvieto and the Basilica di San Frediano in Lucca 	What was special about St Mark's Basilica in Venice?
Only scant remains prove that mosaics were still used in the Early Middle Ages	What proves mosaics were used in the early middle ages?
Later fresco replaced the more labor-intensive technique of mosaic in Western-Europe, although mosaics were sometimes used as decoration on medieval cathedrals	What would replace the labor intensive technique of mosaic?
The Crusaders in the Holy Land also adopted mosaic decoration under local Byzantine influence	What nation influenced the Crusaders mosaic styles?
In 2003, the remains of a mosaic pavement were discovered under the ruins of the Bizere Monastery near the River Mureş in present-day Romania	when were mosaic pavements uncovered at the Bizere Monastery?
Raphael is represented by a mosaic replica of this last painting, the Transfiguration	How is Raphael portrayed in St. Peter's?
The single most important piece of Byzantine Christian mosaic art in the East is the Madaba Map, made between 542 and 570 as the floor of the church of Saint George at Madaba, Jordan	What is the most important mosaic piece built by Byzantine Christians?
Important Justinian era mosaics decorated the Saint Catherine's Monastery on Mount Sinai in Egypt	What era were the mosaics that adorned Saint Catherine's Monastery?
Jerusalem with its many holy places probably had the highest concentration of mosaic-covered churches but very few of them survived the subsequent waves of destructions	Which city had the highest percentage of mosaic covered churches?
An exceptionally well preserved, carpet-like mosaic floor was uncovered in 1949 in Bethany, the early Byzantine church of the Lazarium which was built between 333 and 390	Where would the Byzantine church of the Lazarium be located today?
The monastic communities of the Judean Desert also decorated their monasteries with mosaic floors	The churches of which desert decorated their monasteries with mosaics?
Mosaic art also flourished in Christian Petra where three Byzantine churches were discovered	How many Christian churches have been found in the Christian Petra?
The mosaics of the Church of St Stephen in ancient Kastron Mefaa were made in 785 	Where would the Church of St Stephen be located today?
Yaroslav, the Grand Prince of the Kievan Rus' built a large cathedral in his capital, Kiev	Yaroslav held what title in medieval Russia?
The apse mosaic of the Gelati Monastery is a rare example of mosaic use in Georgia	In what country is the the Gelati Monastery located?
The remains of a 6th-century synagogue have been uncovered in Sepphoris, which was an important centre of Jewish culture between the 3rd–7th centuries and a multicultural town inhabited by Jews, Christians and pagans	The remains of what was found at Sepphoris?
The synagogue in Eshtemoa was built around the 4th century	When was the synagogue in Eshtemoa constructed?
The ban on figurative depiction was not taken so seriously by the Jews living in Byzantine Gaza	In Byzantine Gaza, Jews were relaxed on what ban?
A 5th-century building in Huldah may be a Samaritan synagogue	A 5th-century building in Huldah is believed to be what?
Islamic architecture used mosaic technique to decorate religious buildings and palaces after the Muslim conquests of the eastern provinces of the Byzantine Empire	Who conquered the Eastern Provinces of the Byzantine empire?
The most important early Islamic mosaic work is the decoration of the Umayyad Mosque in Damascus, then capital of the Arab Caliphate	Where is the most important Islamic mosaic work?
Non-religious Umayyad mosaic works were mainly floor panels which decorated the palaces of the caliphs and other high-ranking officials	Any mosaic having secular designs were likely what?
Some of the best examples of later Islamic mosaics were produced in Moorish Spain	Where are some of the best examples of islamic mosaic work found?
Another modern mosaic of note is the world's largest mosaic installation located at the Cathedral Basilica of St	The Cathedral Basilica of St. Louis holds the largest what?
In styles that owe as much to videogame pixel art and popculture as to traditional mosaic, street art has seen a novel reinvention and expansion of mosaic artwork	What has recently seen an expansion of mosaic artwork?
Portuguese pavement is a kind of two-tone stone mosaic paving created in Portugal, and common throughout the Lusosphere	Portuguese pavement is known by what other name?
Tiles are applied face-down to a backing paper using an adhesive, and later transferred onto walls, floors or craft projects	How were larger mosaics usually constructed?
The double indirect method can be used when it is important to see the work during the creation process as it will appear when completed	When is the double indirect method of mosaic useful?
to make a static image on a shower room or bathing pool floor, by breaking the image down into square pixels formed from ceramic tiles , as for example, on the floor of the University of Toronto pool, though sometimes larger tiles such as 2 in × 2 in are used)	What is the typical size of a ceramic mosaic tile?
With high cost of labor in developed countries, production automation has become increasingly popular	Why has production automation become popular?
"The original Latin word ""universitas"" refers in general to ""a number of persons associated into one body, a society, company, community, guild, corporation, etc"	From what language does Universitas come from?
An important idea in the definition of a university is the notion of academic freedom	In terms of academics what is a core requirement of a university?
European higher education took place for hundreds of years in Christian cathedral schools or monastic schools , in which monks and nuns taught classes; evidence of these immediate forerunners of the later university at many places dates back to the 6th century	What is a scholae monasticae?
All over Europe rulers and city governments began to create universities to satisfy a European thirst for knowledge, and the belief that society would benefit from the scholarly expertise generated from these institutions	Why did rulers and governments in Europe form universities?
The rediscovery of Aristotle's works–more than 3000 pages of it would eventually be translated –fuelled a spirit of inquiry into natural processes that had already begun to emerge in the 12th century	Roughly how many pages of the works of Aristotle were translated by the 12th century?
Latin was the language of the university, used for all texts, lectures, disputations and examinations	Which language was used in lectures in early European universities?
Their endowment by a prince or monarch and their role in training government officials made these Mediterranean universities similar to Islamic madrasas, although madrasas were generally smaller and individual teachers, rather than the madrasa itself, granted the license or degree	What type of university was an Islamic madrasa akin to?
Many scholars have argued that early medieval universities were influenced by the religious madrasahs in Al-Andalus, the Emirate of Sicily, and the Middle East 	Madrasas in which specific location are said to have guided the formation of medieval universities?
During the Early Modern period , the universities of Europe would see a tremendous amount of growth, productivity and innovative research	What was the time span of the Early Modern period?
Many wars, and especially the Thirty Years' War, disrupted the university landscape throughout Europe at different times	What war most curtailed the spread of universities in the 17th century?
"Although the structural model provided by the University of Paris, where student members are controlled by faculty ""masters,"" provided a standard for universities, the application of this model took at least three different forms"	What were the faculty who supervised students in the University of Paris called?
Early Modern universities initially continued the curriculum and research of the Middle Ages: natural philosophy, logic, medicine, theology, mathematics, astronomy , law, grammar and rhetoric	What was the source of educational material in Early Modern age universities?
Although the initial focus of the humanist scholars in the university was the discovery, exposition and insertion of ancient texts and languages into the university, and the ideas of those texts into society generally, their influence was ultimately quite progressive	Discovery and exposition were examples of the focus of what type of university scholar?
In many European countries, it is possible to study without tuition fees	In multiple countries in Europe students can attend a university with what kind if financial burden?
""" (in the United States and Ireland, college is often used instead: ""When I was in college"	In Ireland what word is mainly used instead of university?
"In Canada, ""college"" generally refers to a two-year, non-degree-granting institution, while ""university"" connotes a four-year, degree-granting institution"	A college teaches students for how many years in Canada?
Although each institution is organized differently, nearly all universities have a board of trustees; a president, chancellor, or rector; at least one vice president, vice-chancellor, or vice-rector; and deans of various divisions	How many vice presidents do most universities have?
The funding and organization of universities varies widely between different countries around the world	How does the financial backing of universities around the world differ?
Universities created by bilateral or multilateral treaties between states are intergovernmental	What is a university formed through a bilateral treaty known as?
Some national universities are closely associated with national cultural or political aspirations, for instance the National University of Ireland in the early days of Irish independence collected a large amount of information on the Irish language and Irish culture	What was a focus of the National University of Ireland during the beginning of Irish Independence?
"In 1963, the Robbins Report on universities in the United Kingdom concluded that such institutions should have four main ""objectives essential to any properly balanced system: instruction in skills; the promotion of the general powers of the mind so as to produce not mere specialists but rather cultivated men and women; to maintain research in balance with teaching, since teaching should not be separated from the advancement of learning and the search for truth; and to transmit a common culture and common standards of citizenship"	In what year did the Robbins report say that universities should have four objectives to remain balanced?
Until the 19th century, religion played a significant role in university curriculum; however, the role of religion in research universities decreased in the 19th century, and by the end of the 19th century, the German university model had spread around the world	Ending with what century did religion play a smaller part in the curriculum of universities?
By the end of the early modern period, the structure and orientation of higher education had changed in ways that are eminently recognizable for the modern context	At the end of what period would universities become alike to contemporary universities?
The epistemological tensions between scientists and universities were also heightened by the economic realities of research during this time, as individual scientists, associations and universities were vying for limited resources	Scientists and universities were competing for what?
In fact, more than 80% of the European scientists between 1450–1650 included in the Dictionary of Scientific Biography were university trained, of which approximately 45% held university posts	What percentage of scientists from 1450–1650 in the Dictionary of Scientific Biography were taught in a university?
Aristotelian epistemology provided a coherent framework not simply for knowledge and knowledge construction, but also for the training of scholars within the higher education setting	What type of epistemology served as the foundation of knowledge constructions and training scholars in universities?
Examining the influence of humanism on scholars in medicine, mathematics, astronomy and physics may suggest that humanism and universities were a strong impetus for the scientific revolution	The study of humanism among those studying math, astronomy and medicine is said to have caused what?
The priesthoods of public religion were held by members of the elite classes	The members of what class were priests in ancient Rome?
""" Religion depended on knowledge and the correct practice of prayer, ritual, and sacrifice, not on faith or dogma, although Latin literature preserves learned speculation on the nature of the divine and its relation to human affairs"	What characteristics were not inherent in Roman religious practice?
The Romans are known for the great number of deities they honored, a capacity that earned the mockery of early Christian polemicists	How deities did the Romans have?
Imported mystery religions, which offered initiates salvation in the afterlife, were a matter of personal choice for an individual, practiced in addition to carrying on one's family rites and participating in public religion	What was the practice of religion to the Romans?
As the Romans extended their dominance throughout the Mediterranean world, their policy in general was to absorb the deities and cults of other peoples rather than try to eradicate them, since they believed that preserving tradition promoted social stability	What did the Romans tend to do with local religions and deities in conquered areas? 
In the wake of the Republic's collapse, state religion had adapted to support the new regime of the emperors	After the Republic collapsed, what addition was made to the religions of Rome?
Rome had a semi-divine ancestor in the Trojan refugee Aeneas, son of Venus, who was said to have established the nucleus of Roman religion when he brought the Palladium, Lares and Penates from Troy to Italy	What mythical figure did the Romans consider to be semi-divine?
The myth of a Trojan founding with Greek influence was reconciled through an elaborate genealogy with the well-known legend of Rome's founding by Romulus and Remus	What mythical characters were involved in the founding of Rome?
Romulus was credited with several religious institutions	What type of organization did Romulus establish?
Each of Rome's legendary or semi-legendary kings was associated with one or more religious institutions still known to the later Republic	To what were the first kings of Rome associated?
Rome offers no native creation myth, and little mythography to explain the character of its deities, their mutual relationships or their interactions with the human world, but Roman theology acknowledged that di immortales ruled all realms of the heavens and earth	What type of myth did Rome not have?
"Jupiter, the most powerful of all gods and ""the fount of the auspices upon which the relationship of the city with the gods rested"", consistently personified the divine authority of Rome's highest offices, internal organization and external relations"	To the Romans who was the most powerful of the gods?
The impressive, costly, and centralised rites to the deities of the Roman state were vastly outnumbered in everyday life by commonplace religious observances pertaining to an individual's domestic and personal deities, the patron divinities of Rome's various neighborhoods and communities, and the often idiosyncratic blends of official, unofficial, local and personal cults that characterised lawful Roman religion	What type of religious practices outnumbered the state observances?
Roman calendars show roughly forty annual religious festivals	How many religious celebrations did Rome have?
The triumph of a Roman general was celebrated as the fulfillment of religious vows, though these tended to be overshadowed by the political and social significance of the event	What type of festivals happened when events warranted them?
The meaning and origin of many archaic festivals baffled even Rome's intellectual elite, but the more obscure they were, the greater the opportunity for reinvention and reinterpretation — a fact lost neither on Augustus in his program of religious reform, which often cloaked autocratic innovation, nor on his only rival as mythmaker of the era, Ovid	What did obscure festivals offer Romans the opportunity to do?
"The Latin word templum originally referred not to the temple building itself, but to a sacred space surveyed and plotted ritually through augury: ""The architecture of the ancient Romans was, from first to last, an art of shaping space around ritual"	Around what aspect did the Romans a lot space?
All sacrifices and offerings required an accompanying prayer to be effective	What did each offering require to be valid in Roman religion?
Sacrifice to deities of the heavens was performed in daylight, and under the public gaze	When did the sacrifices to the deities of the heavens occur? 
Chthonic gods such as Dis pater, the di inferi , and the collective shades of the departed were given dark, fertile victims in nighttime rituals	When were the gods below and the dead celebrated?
The same divine agencies who caused disease or harm also had the power to avert it, and so might be placated in advance	What elements had the power of benefit or harm in Roman religion?
Extraordinary circumstances called for extraordinary sacrifice: in one of the many crises of the Second Punic War, Jupiter Capitolinus was promised every animal born that spring , to be rendered after five more years of protection from Hannibal and his allies	What type of circumstances were called for in times of extreme difficulties?
The exta were the entrails of a sacrificed animal, comprising in Cicero's enumeration the gall bladder , liver , heart , and lungs 	What were the exta of a sacrifice?
Human sacrifice in ancient Rome was rare but documented	What type of sacrifice was rare in Rome?
In the early stages of the First Punic War the first known Roman gladiatorial munus was held, described as a funeral blood-rite to the manes of a Roman military aristocrat	During what war was the first gladiator munus held?
The small woolen dolls called Maniae, hung on the Compitalia shrines, were thought a symbolic replacement for child-sacrifice to Mania, as Mother of the Lares	What were stand-ins for child sacrifices to Mania?
"Officially, human sacrifice was obnoxious ""to the laws of gods and men"	What act did Romans view as obnoxious?
A pater familias was the senior priest of his household	Who was the senior priest of the household in Rome?
Religious law centered on the ritualised system of honours and sacrifice that brought divine blessings, according to the principle do ut des 	On what kind of system was Roman religious law focused?
"Official cults were state funded as a ""matter of public interest"" "	What organization payed for the maintenance official cults?
Rome had no separate priestly caste or class	What was lacking as to the profession of a priest class in Rome?
In the Regal era, a rex sacrorum supervised regal and state rites in conjunction with the king or in his absence, and announced the public festivals	Who supervised sacred rites during the era of kings?
Public priests were appointed by the collegia	What group selected public priests in Rome?
The Vestals were a public priesthood of six women devoted to the cultivation of Vesta, goddess of the hearth of the Roman state and its vital flame	How many Vestals were there in Rome?
Unlike male priests, Vestals were freed of the traditional obligations of marrying and producing children, and were required to take a vow of chastity that was strictly enforced: a Vestal polluted by the loss of her chastity while in office was buried alive	What vow was required of Vestals?
Any householder could rekindle their own household fire from Vesta's flame	Where could a householder rekindle the home's flame?
Augustus' religious reformations raised the funding and public profile of the Vestals	What group's status was improved by Augustus' religious reforms?
Public religion took place within a sacred precinct that had been marked out ritually by an augur	In what area did public rites take place in Rome?
The haruspices divined the will of the gods through examination of entrails after sacrifice, particularly the liver	What process did haruspicy use to divine the will of the gods?
Prodigies were transgressions in the natural, predictable order of the cosmos – signs of divine anger that portended conflict and misfortune	What were considered to be natural transgressions by the Romans?
Livy presents these as signs of widespread failure in Roman religio	What author wrote of disaster prodigies?
Roman beliefs about an afterlife varied, and are known mostly for the educated elite who expressed their views in terms of their chosen philosophy	From what source does information of Roman thought about the afterlife come?
Funeral and commemorative rites varied according to wealth, status and religious context	What type of rites varied in accordance with status and religion?
In the later Imperial era, the burial and commemorative practises of Christian and non-Christians overlapped	What group's burial practices over-lapped with the Roman's?
Roman camps followed a standard pattern for defense and religious ritual; in effect they were Rome in miniature	How were Roman camps laid out?
Each camp had its own religious personnel; standard bearers, priestly officers and their assistants, including a haruspex, and housekeepers of shrines and images	What type of personnel did every camp have?
The devotio was the most extreme offering a Roman general could make, promising to offer his own life in battle along with the enemy as an offering to the underworld gods	What was a Roman general's most extreme offering?
"In the early days of Rome's war against Carthage, the commander Publius Claudius Pulcher launched a sea campaign ""though the sacred chickens would not eat when he took the auspices"	What general was consul in 249 BC?
Some rituals specifically required the presence of women, but their active participation was limited	What was the amount of participation by women in religious observances?
"Excessive devotion and enthusiasm in religious observance were superstitio, in the sense of ""doing or believing more than was necessary"", to which women and foreigners were considered particularly prone"	What was excessive religious fervor in Rome's religions?
Secretive consultations between private diviners and their clients were thus suspect	What type of diviners were suspect in Rome?
"In the Graeco-Roman world, practitioners of magic were known as magi , a ""foreign"" title of Persian priests"	What word was used by the Romans for practitioners of magic?
"Lucan depicts Sextus Pompeius, the doomed son of Pompey the Great, as convinced ""the gods of heaven knew too little"" and awaiting the Battle of Pharsalus by consulting with the Thessalian witch Erichtho, who practices necromancy and inhabits deserted graves, feeding on rotting corpses"	Who consulted a witch before the battle of Pharsalus?
"The Twelve Tables forbade any harmful incantation ; this included the ""charming of crops from one field to another"" and any rite that sought harm or death to others"	What forbid harmful incantations?
"Archaeology confirms the widespread use of binding spells , magical papyri and so-called ""voodoo dolls"" from a very early era"	What science has confirmed the existence of magic use from early times?
Rome's government, politics and religion were dominated by an educated, male, landowning military aristocracy	What male group dominated all aspects of Rome?
The links between religious and political life were vital to Rome's internal governance, diplomacy and development from kingdom, to Republic and to Empire	The link between what groups was necessary to Rome?
While the new plebeian nobility made social, political and religious inroads on traditionally patrician preserves, their electorate maintained their distinctive political traditions and religious cults	What did the patrician electorate keep in spite of a new plebeian nobility? 
"In 63 BC, Julius Caesar's appointment as pontifex maximus ""signaled his emergence as a major player in Roman politics"""	What appointment was the start of Cesar's political rise?
By the end of the regal period Rome had developed into a city-state, with a large plebeian, artisan class excluded from the old patrician gentes and from the state priesthoods	At the end of the regal period, what class was kept out of the state political and priesthood arenas?
Rome's diplomatic agreement with her neighbours of Latium confirmed the Latin league and brought the cult of Diana from Aricia to the Aventine	Whose cult appeared from Africa at the time of the Latin League?
In 206 BC the Sibylline books commended the introduction of cult to the aniconic Magna Mater from Pessinus, installed on the Palatine in 191 BC	What cult appeared from Pessinus in 206 BC?
The spread of Greek literature, mythology and philosophy offered Roman poets and antiquarians a model for the interpretation of Rome's festivals and rituals, and the embellishment of its mythology	The spread of all things Greek provided what for the interpretation of Rome's religions?
In the mid-to-late Republican era, and probably much earlier, many of Rome's leading clans acknowledged a divine or semi-divine ancestor and laid personal claim to their favour and cult, along with a share of their divinity	What did many Romans claim in the Republican era?
Towards the end of the Republic, religious and political offices became more closely intertwined; the office of pontifex maximus became a de facto consular prerogative	By the end of the Republic, what offices were increasingly joined?
Those who acknowledged Rome's hegemony retained their own cult and religious calendars, independent of Roman religious law	From what were countries in the empire free?
Rome's citizen-soldiers set up altars to multiple deities, including their traditional gods, the Imperial genius and local deities – sometimes with the usefully open-ended dedication to the diis deabusque omnibus 	To whom did Roman soldiers set up alters?
The first and last Roman known as a living divus was Julius Caesar, who seems to have aspired to divine monarchy; he was murdered soon after	What Roman leader aspired to be a living god?
In Rome, state cult to a living emperor acknowledged his rule as divinely approved and constitutional	What was the emperor's rule in Rome?
For at least a century before the establishment of the Augustan principate, Jews and Judaism were tolerated in Rome by diplomatic treaty with Judaea's Hellenised elite	What means guaranteed the Jews and Judaism in Rome?
After the Great Fire of Rome in 64 AD, Emperor Nero accused the Christians as convenient scapegoats, who were later persecuted and killed	What group was accused of starting the Great Fire of 64 AD?
"In the wake of religious riots in Egypt, the emperor Decius decreed that all subjects of the Empire must actively seek to benefit the state through witnessed and certified sacrifice to ""ancestral gods"" or suffer a penalty: only Jews were exempt"	Which emperor decreed that all Romans must sacrifice to traditional gods?
Valerian's first religious edict singled out Christianity as a particularly self-interested and subversive foreign cult, outlawed its assemblies and urged Christians to sacrifice to Rome's traditional gods	What did Valerian call the Christian religion?
Both were executed for treason; both were Christians	For what reason were Maximillian and Marcellus executed?
In some cases and in some places the edicts were strictly enforced: some Christians resisted and were imprisoned or martyred	How were the Roman edicts handled in some areas?
"His was an authoritative but minority voice: most Christians showed no qualms in the veneration of even ""pagan"" emperors"	With what veneration did most Christians have little trouble?
The edict of Milan redefined Imperial ideology as one of mutual toleration	What edict defined imperial ideas as being those of toleration?
Constantine called all the Christian bishops throughout the Roman Empire to a meeting, and some 318 bishops attended the First Council of Nicaea	What group did Constantine call to a meeting?
The emperor Julian made a short-lived attempt to revive traditional and Hellenistic religion and to affirm the special status of Judaism, but in 380 under Theodosius I, Nicene Christianity became the official state religion of the Roman Empire	What emperor tried to revive traditional religious practices?
"Constantine's nephew Julian rejected the ""Galilean madness"" of his upbringing for an idiosyncratic synthesis of neo-Platonism, Stoic asceticism and universal solar cult"	Who rejected the Christian religion?
The Western emperor Gratian refused the office of pontifex maximus, and against the protests of the senate, removed the altar of Victory from the senate house and began the disestablishment of the Vestals	What office did Western emperor Gratian decline?
YouTube is a global video-sharing website headquartered in San Bruno, California, United States	Where is Youtube headquartered? 
According to a story that has often been repeated in the media, Hurley and Chen developed the idea for YouTube during the early months of 2005, after they had experienced difficulty sharing videos that had been shot at a dinner party at Chen's apartment in San Francisco	What are the first names of the men that invented youtube?
YouTube offered the public a beta test of the site in May 2005	when was the first beta test for the youtube site?
In 2014 YouTube said that 300 hours of new videos were uploaded to the site every minute, three times more than one year earlier and that around three quarters of the material comes from outside the U	As of 2014, how many hours of video were being uploaded every minute?
On March 31, 2010, the YouTube website launched a new design, with the aim of simplifying the interface and increasing the time users spend on the site	What did youtube do on March 31 2010? 
In February 2015, YouTube announced the launch of a new app specifically for use by children visiting the site, called YouTube Kids	What did youtube announce in Feb of 2015?
In January 2010, YouTube launched an experimental version of the site that used the built-in multimedia capabilities of web browsers supporting the HTML5 standard	In 2010 youtube launched a version of its site that ran on what standard?
Users who have a good track record of complying with the site's Community Guidelines may be offered the ability to upload videos up to 12 hours in length, which requires verifying the account, normally through a mobile phone	What is the maximum length of a video on youtube?
In November 2008, 720p HD support was added	When was 720p HD support added to youtube?
In a video posted on July 21, 2009, YouTube software engineer Peter Bradshaw announced that YouTube users can now upload 3D videos	Peter Bradshaw held what position in youtube?
YouTube offers users the ability to view its videos on web pages outside their website	Youtube offers users the option to watch content where?
YouTube does not usually offer a download link for its videos, and intends for them to be viewed through its website interface	YOutube does not often post a what for its videos?
Since June 2007, YouTube's videos have been available for viewing on a range of Apple products	When did youtube become available on Apple products?
A TiVo service update in July 2008 allowed the system to search and play YouTube videos	What service was able to search and play youtube videos as of 2008?
YouTube Red is YouTube's premium subscription service	What is youtube red?
Both private individuals and large production companies have used YouTube to grow audiences	Other than private individuals, who has used youtube to grow their audience?
"Observing that face-to-face communication of the type that online videos convey has been ""fine-tuned by millions of years of evolution"", TED curator Chris Anderson referred to several YouTube contributors and asserted that ""what Gutenberg did for writing, online video can now do for face-to-face communication"""	Who is the TED curator?
"Howard quoted an activist's succinct description that organizing the political unrest involved using ""Facebook to schedule the protests, Twitter to coordinate, and YouTube to tell the world"	An activist in the Arab spring said they were using Facebook to what?
Conversely, YouTube has also allowed government to more easily engage with citizens, the White House's official YouTube channel being the seventh top news organization producer on YouTube in 2012 and in 2013 a healthcare exchange commissioned Obama impersonator Iman Crosson's YouTube music video spoof to encourage young Americans to enroll in the Affordable Care Act -compliant health insurance	How has youtube helped the government?
The anti-bullying It Gets Better Project expanded from a single YouTube video directed to discouraged or suicidal LGBT teens, that within two months drew video responses from hundreds including U	What is the name of the group that drew responses from the resident and most of his staff regarding anti-bullying?
In January 2012, it was estimated that visitors to YouTube spent an average of 15 minutes a day on the site, in contrast to the four or five hours a day spent by a typical U	How much time does the average person spend watching youtube videos each day?
YouTube entered into a marketing and advertising partnership with NBC in June 2006	When did youtube enter a partnership with NBC?
In May 2007, YouTube launched its Partner Program, a system based on AdSense which allows the uploader of the video to share the revenue produced by advertising on the site	What was youtube's 2007 partner program based on?
Much of YouTube's revenue goes to the copyright holders of the videos	Where does the majority of youtube's revenue go?
At the time of uploading a video, YouTube users are shown a message asking them not to violate copyright laws	What does the message when uploading a video ask the user not to do?
Organizations including Viacom, Mediaset, and the English Premier League have filed lawsuits against YouTube, claiming that it has done too little to prevent the uploading of copyrighted material	Companies including Viacom and Mediaset have done what against youtube?
During the same court battle, Viacom won a court ruling requiring YouTube to hand over 12 terabytes of data detailing the viewing habits of every user who has watched videos on the site	How much data did youtube have to hand over to Viacom as a result of the lawsuit?
In June 2007, YouTube began trials of a system for automatic detection of uploaded videos that infringe copyright	In 2007 youtube launched an automated system to detect what?
"An independent test in 2009 uploaded multiple versions of the same song to YouTube, and concluded that while the system was ""surprisingly resilient"" in finding copyright violations in the audio tracks of videos, it was not infallible"	What was the ultimate view of Content ID's performance after a 2009 test?
YouTube relies on its users to flag the content of videos as inappropriate, and a YouTube employee will view a flagged video to determine whether it violates the site's terms of service	Youtube depends on who to flag inappropriate videos?
Most videos enable users to leave comments, and these have attracted attention for the negative aspects of both their form and content	Most videos enable users to do what
On November 6, 2013, Google implemented a new comment system that requires all YouTube users to use a Google+ account in order to comment on videos and making the comment system Google+ oriented	When did youtube first require the user to have a google account before posting a comment?
In some countries, YouTube is completely blocked, either through a long term standing ban or for more limited periods of time such as during periods of unrest, the run-up to an election, or in response to upcoming political anniversaries	youtube is completely what in some places?
""" The Financial Times later reported that YouTube had reached an aggregate deal with Merlin Network—a trade group representing over 20,000 independent labels, for their inclusion in the service"	How many independent labels did the Merlin Network represent?
Jefferson's metaphor of a wall of separation has been cited repeatedly by the U	Who made a metaphor about a wall of separation?
Many early immigrant groups traveled to America to worship freely, particularly after the English Civil War and religious conflict in France and Germany	What was one of the reason early immigrant groups came to America?
No person within this state shall, upon any pretense, be deprived of the inestimable privilege of worshipping God in any manner agreeable to his own conscience, nor be compelled to attend any place of worship contrary to his own faith and judgment; nor shall he ever be obliged to pay tithes, taxes, or any other rate, for the building or repairing any place of worship, or for the maintenance of any minister or ministry, contrary to what he believes to be right, or hath voluntarily engaged to do	What may no person within Georgia be deprived of the privilege of doing in any manner agreeable to them?
^Note 5: The North Carolina Constitution of 1776 disestablished the Anglican church, but until 1835 the NC Constitution allowed only Protestants to hold public office	When did the North Carolina Constitution disestablish the Anglican church?
"The Flushing Remonstrance shows support for separation of church and state as early as the mid-17th century, stating their opposition to religious persecution of any sort: ""The law of love, peace and liberty in the states extending to Jews, Turks and Egyptians, as they are considered sons of Adam, which is the glory of the outward state of Holland, so love, peace and liberty, extending to all in Christ Jesus, condemns hatred, war and bondage"	What shows support for the separation of church and state as early as the mid-17th century?
There were also opponents to the support of any established church even at the state level	What did an established church, even at the state level, have?
"The phrase "" hedge or wall of separation between the garden of the church and the wilderness of the world"" was first used by Baptist theologian Roger Williams, the founder of the colony of Rhode Island, in his 1644 book The Bloody Tenent of Persecution"	Who was Roger Williams?
Jefferson and James Madison's conceptions of separation have long been debated	Whose conceptions of separation have long been argued over?
Jefferson's opponents said his position was the destruction and the governmental rejection of Christianity, but this was a caricature	What did Jefferson's opponents accuse him of wanting to do to Christianity? 
Jefferson's letter entered American jurisprudence in the 1878 Mormon polygamy case Reynolds v	When did Jefferson's letter enter American jurisprudence?
Jefferson and Madison's approach was not the only one taken in the eighteenth century	What approach was not the only one taken in the 18th century?
The Duke of York had required that every community in his new lands of New York and New Jersey support some church, but this was more often Dutch Reformed, Quaker or Presbyterian, than Anglican	What did the Duke of York require every community in his lands to support?
The original charter of the Province of East Jersey had restricted membership in the Assembly to Christians; the Duke of York was fervently Catholic, and the proprietors of Perth Amboy, New Jersey were Scottish Catholic peers	What did the original charter of the Province of East Jersey restrict membership in its Assembly to?
"The first amendment to the US Constitution states ""Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof"" The two parts, known as the ""establishment clause"" and the ""free exercise clause"" respectively, form the textual basis for the Supreme Court's interpretations of the ""separation of church and state"" doctrine"	What does the first amendment to the US Constitution state?
"Some legal scholars, such as John Baker of LSU, theorize that Madison's initial proposed language—that Congress should make no law regarding the establishment of a ""national religion""—was rejected by the House, in favor of the more general ""religion"" in an effort to appease the Anti-Federalists"	What is John Baker of LSU's profession?
Roger Sherman of Connecticut, believed the clause was unnecessary because the original Constitution only gave Congress stated powers, which did not include establishing a national religion	Where was Representative Roger Sherman from?
The Fourteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution is one of the post-Civil War amendments, intended to secure rights for former slaves	When was the 14th Amendment to the US Constitution created?
Although upholding the state law in that case, which provided for public busing to private religious schools, the Supreme Court held that the First Amendment establishment clause was fully applicable to the state governments	What did the Supreme Court uphold in Everson v. Board of Education?
"Jefferson's concept of ""separation of church and state"" first became a part of Establishment Clause jurisprudence in Reynolds v"	"What did Jefferson's concept of 'separation of church and state"" became part of what jurisprudence?"
1 , a case dealing with a New Jersey law that allowed government funds to pay for transportation of students to both public and Catholic schools	"When was the centrality of the ""separation"" concept to the Religion Clauses of the Constitution made explicit?"
While the decision ultimately upheld the state law allowing the funding of transportation of students to religious schools, the majority opinion and the dissenting opinions (by Justice Wiley Blount Rutledge and Justice Robert H	What did the decision ultimately uphold?
In 1962, the Supreme Court addressed the issue of officially-sponsored prayer or religious recitations in public schools	When did the Supreme Court address the issue of officially sponsored prayer in public schools?
"The court noted that it ""is a matter of history that this very practice of establishing governmentally composed prayers for religious services was one of the reasons which caused many of our early colonists to leave England and seek religious freedom in America"	What was one of the reasons early colonists left England to seek religious freedom in America?
"97 , the Supreme Court considered an Arkansas law that made it a crime ""to teach the theory or doctrine that mankind ascended or descended from a lower order of animals,"" or ""to adopt or use in any such institution a textbook that teaches"" this theory in any school or university that received public funds"	When did the case of Epperson v. Arkansas take place?
602 , the court determined that a Pennsylvania state policy of reimbursing the salaries and related costs of teachers of secular subjects in private religious schools violated the Establishment Clause	When was the case of Lemon v. Kurtzman?
"Subsequent to this decision, the Supreme Court has applied a three-pronged test to determine whether government action comports with the Establishment Clause, known as the ""Lemon Test"""	How many prongs is the Supreme COurt's test to determine if a government action comports with the Establishment Clause?
"In 2002, a three judge panel on the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals held that classroom recitation of the Pledge of Allegiance in a California public school was unconstitutional, even when students were not compelled to recite it, due to the inclusion of the phrase ""under God"	How many judges were on the panel which held the Pledge of Allegiance in California public schools was unconstitutional?
On December 20, 2005, the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit ruled in the case of ACLU v	When did the US Court of Appeals rule in the case of ACLU v. Mercer County?
On May 5, 2014, the U	When did the Supreme Court rule on Town of Greece v. Galloway?
"Some scholars and organizations disagree with the notion of ""separation of church and state"", or the way the Supreme Court has interpreted the constitutional limitation on religious establishment"	What do some organizations disagree with the notion of?
These critics of the modern separation of church and state also note the official establishment of religion in several of the states at the time of ratification, to suggest that the modern incorporation of the Establishment Clause as to state governments goes against the original constitutional intent	Critics of modern separation of church and state note there was official establishment of what in several states at the time of ratification?
"The ""religious test"" clause has been interpreted to cover both elected officials and appointed ones, career civil servants as well as political appointees"	What clause are both elected officials and appointed ones covered by?
The required beliefs of these clauses include belief in a Supreme Being and belief in a future state of rewards and punishments	What do the non-permissible clauses require a belief in?
, have also been questioned, but have been considered examples of the governmental prerogative in deciding practical and beneficial arrangements for the society	Why have perks like relaxed zoning rules and special parking privileges been allowed for churches?
Jeffries and Ryan argue that the modern concept of separation of church and state dates from the mid-twentieth century rulings of the Supreme Court	When do Jeffries and Ryan that the modern concept of separation of church and state dates from?
Jeffries and Ryan argue that no-aid position drew support from a coalition of separationist opinion	What position do Jeffries and Ryan argue was the reason for support from a coalition of separationists?
"Critics of the modern concept of the ""separation of church and state"" argue that it is untethered to anything in the text of the constitution and is contrary to the conception of the phrase as the Founding Fathers understood it"	What do critics of the concept of separation of church and state argue it's untethered to?
"Brent Walker, Executive Director of the Baptist Joint Committee, responded to Hamburger's claims noting; ""The fact that the separation of church and state has been supported by some who exhibited an anti-Catholic animus or a secularist bent does not impugn the validity of the principle"	What does Walker feel does not impugn the validity of the principle of separation of church and state?
"Steven Waldman notes that; ""The evangelicals provided the political muscle for the efforts of Madison and Jefferson, not merely because they wanted to block official churches but because they wanted to keep the spiritual and secular worlds apart"	What did evangelicals want to keep apart?
Bellah has in his writings that although the separation of church and state is grounded firmly in the constitution of the United States, this does not mean that there is no religious dimension in the political society of the United States	What does Bellah say the separation of church and state is grounded firmly in?
Wood has argued that the United States is a model for the world in terms of how a separation of church and state—no state-run or state-established church—is good for both the church and the state, allowing a variety of religions to flourish	What does having no state-run or state-established allow a variety of religions to do?
Protestantism is a form of Christian faith and practice which originated with the Protestant Reformation, a movement against what its followers considered to be errors in the Roman Catholic Church	What type of faith is Protestantism?
All Protestant denominations reject the notion of papal supremacy over the Church universal and generally deny the Roman Catholic doctrine of transubstantiation, but they disagree among themselves regarding the real presence of Christ in the Eucharist	What do all Protestantism denominations reject?
Lutheranism spread from Germany into its surrounding areas, Denmark, Norway, Sweden, Finland, Prussia, Latvia,, Estonia, and Iceland, as well as other smaller territories	Where did Lutheranism begin?
Collectively encompassing more than 900 million adherents, or nearly forty percent of Christians worldwide, Protestantism is present on all populated continents	What percentage of Christians are Protestant?
During the Reformation, the term was hardly used outside of the German politics	From what language does the term evangelical originate?
The use of the phrases as summaries of teaching emerged over time during the Reformation, based on the overarching principle of sola scriptura 	What is the term for teaching by only scripture?
The necessity and inerrancy were well-established ideas, garnering little criticism, though they later came under debate from outside during the Enlightenment	Which ideas had little criticism for the most part?
The second main principle, sola fide , states that faith in Christ is sufficient alone for eternal salvation	What is the second principle of Protestantism?
The Protestant movement began to diverge into several distinct branches in the mid-to-late 16th century	When did Protestantism begin to split?
In the late 1130s, Arnold of Brescia, an Italian canon regular became one of the first theologians to attempt to reform the Roman Catholic Church	Who was one of the first to try to reform the Catholic Church?
Beginning in first decade of the 15th century, Jan Hus—a Roman Catholic priest, Czech reformist and professor—influenced by John Wycliffe's writings, founded the Hussite movement	Who started the Hussite movement?
On 31 October 1517, Martin Luther supposedly nailed his 95 theses against the selling of indulgences at the door of the All Saints', the Castle Church in Wittenberg	When did Martin Luther attach his 95 theses on the door of the church?
Following the excommunication of Luther and condemnation of the Reformation by the Pope, the work and writings of John Calvin were influential in establishing a loose consensus among various groups in Switzerland, Scotland, Hungary, Germany and elsewhere	Who condemned the Reformation?
Protestantism also spread from the German lands into France, where the Protestants were nicknamed Huguenots	What was the nickname for French Protestants?
Parallel to events in Germany, a movement began in Switzerland under the leadership of Huldrych Zwingli	Who began the Protestant movement in Switzerland?
The political separation of the Church of England from Rome under Henry VIII brought England alongside this broad Reformation movement	Under whose reign did the Church of England part from Rome?
The success of the Counter-Reformation on the Continent and the growth of a Puritan party dedicated to further Protestant reform polarised the Elizabethan Age	The growth of Puritanism happened during what age?
The Scottish Reformation of 1560 decisively shaped the Church of Scotland	When was the Scottish Reformation?
In the course of this religious upheaval, the German Peasants' War of 1524–25 swept through the Bavarian, Thuringian and Swabian principalities	When was the German Peasants' War?
The First Great Awakening was an evangelical and revitalization movement that swept through Protestant Europe and British America, especially the American colonies in the 1730s and 1740s, leaving a permanent impact on American Protestantism	What movement occurred during the 1730's and 1740's?
The Second Great Awakening began around 1790	When did the Second Great Awakening start?
The Third Great Awakening refers to a hypothetical historical period that was marked by religious activism in American history and spans the late 1850s to the early 20th century	When was the Third Great Awakening?
A noteworthy development in 20th-century Protestant Christianity was the rise of the modern Pentecostal movement	What modern movement began in the 20th century?
In the United States and elsewhere in the world, there has been a marked rise in the evangelical wing of Protestant denominations, especially those that are more exclusively evangelical, and a corresponding decline in the mainstream liberal churches	Where has there been a rise in evangelical Protestantism?
In Europe, there has been a general move away from religious observance and belief in Christian teachings and a move towards secularism	What direction has Europe moved towards?
In the view of many associated with the Radical Reformation, the Magisterial Reformation had not gone far enough	Which reformation was seen as not being effective enough?
Protestants reject the Roman Catholic Church's doctrine that it is the one true church, believing in the invisible church, which consists of all who profess faith in Jesus Christ	What type of church do Protestants believe in?
Various ecumenical movements have attempted cooperation or reorganization of the various divided Protestant denominations, according to various models of union, but divisions continue to outpace unions, as there is no overarching authority to which any of the churches owe allegiance, which can authoritatively define the faith	What type of movements have tried to unite Protestant denominations?
Several countries have established their national churches, linking the ecclesiastical structure with the state	What do national churches bring together?
Protestants can be differentiated according to how they have been influenced by important movements since the Reformation, today regarded as branches	What is another name for denominational families?
The movement has encouraged the examination of the whole Bible, leading Seventh-day Adventists and some smaller Adventist groups to observe the Sabbath	The Adventist movement has encouraged examining what in full?
"The name Anabaptist, meaning ""one who baptizes again"", was given them by their persecutors in reference to the practice of re-baptizing converts who already had been baptized as infants"	What does the word Anabaptist describe?
The word Anglican originates in ecclesia anglicana, a medieval Latin phrase dating to at least 1246 that means the English Church	What does Anglican mean?
The Church of England declared its independence from the Catholic Church at the time of the Elizabethan Religious Settlement	Who did the Church of England split from?
Baptists subscribe to a doctrine that baptism should be performed only for professing believers , and that it must be done by complete immersion 	According to Baptists, who should have baptisms?
Historians trace the earliest church labeled Baptist back to 1609 in Amsterdam, with English Separatist John Smyth as its pastor	Where was the earliest Baptist church founded?
Perhaps the best known summary is contained in the five points of Calvinism, though these points identify the Calvinist view on soteriology rather than summarizing the system as a whole	What is the most well-known summary of Calvin's teachings?
Today, Lutheranism is one of the largest branches of Protestantism	What is one of the largest Protestant branches with 80 million members?
Methodism identifies principally with the theology of John Wesley—an Anglican priest and evangelist	Who was the inspiration for Methodism?
Soteriologically, most Methodists are Arminian, emphasizing that Christ accomplished salvation for every human being, and that humans must exercise an act of the will to receive it 	Methodists believe that Christ achieved salvation for whom?
This empowerment includes the use of spiritual gifts such as speaking in tongues and divine healing—two other defining characteristics of Pentecostalism	Give two examples of spiritual gifts.
Pentecostalism eventually spawned hundreds of new denominations, including large groups such as the Assemblies of God and the Church of God in Christ, both in the United States and elsewhere	How many denominations were spawned by Pentecostalism?
"Some groups of individuals who hold basic Protestant tenets identify themselves simply as ""Christians"" or ""born-again Christians"""	What do some groups of people who believe in basic Protestant principles identify as?
The Plymouth Brethren are a conservative, low church, evangelical movement, whose history can be traced to Dublin, Ireland, in the late 1820s, originating from Anglicanism	Where do the Plymouth Brethren hail from?
Quakers, or Friends, are members of a family of religious movements collectively known as the Religious Society of Friends	What is another informal name for Quaker?
Evangelicalism is a prominent example	What is a prominent example of a movement which crosses over denominational lines?
It gained great momentum in the 18th and 19th centuries with the emergence of Methodism and the Great Awakenings in Britain and North America	What period saw a large upswing in Evangelicalism?
In America, Episcopalian Dennis Bennett is sometimes cited as one of the charismatic movement's seminal influence	What American is considered to have been a seminal influence in the charismatic movement?
Larry Christenson, a Lutheran theologian based in San Pedro, California, did much in the 1960s and 1970s to interpret the charismatic movement for Lutherans	Who helped Lutherans understand the charismatic movement in the 1960s?
Prominent Reformed charismatic denominations are the Sovereign Grace Churches and the Every Nation Churches in the USA, in Great Britain there is the Newfrontiers churches and movement, which leading figure is Terry Virgo	Who heads the Newfrontiers movement?
Puritans were blocked from changing the established church from within, and were severely restricted in England by laws controlling the practice of religion	What group was very much hampered in England from making changes?
Puritans adopted a Reformed theology, but they also took note of radical criticisms of Zwingli in Zurich and Calvin in Geneva	What type of theology did Puritans accept?
Although the Reformation was a religious movement, it also had a strong impact on all other aspects of life: marriage and family, education, the humanities and sciences, the political and social order, the economy, and the arts	What religious movement affected education, politics, the economy, and marriage?
As the Reformers wanted all members of the church to be able to read the Bible, education on all levels got a strong boost	What did Reformers increase so that their followers could read the Bible?
Industry, frugality, calling, discipline, and a strong sense of responsibility are at the heart of their moral code	What is the heart of the Protestant moral code?
In a factor analysis of the latest wave of World Values Survey data, Arno Tausch found that Protestantism emerges to be very close to combining religion and the traditions of liberalism	Who calculated the Global Value Development Index?
Episcopalians and Presbyterians, as well as other WASPs, tend to be considerably wealthier and better educated than most other religious groups in United States, and are disproportionately represented in the upper reaches of American business, law and politics, especially the Republican Party	What denominations are considered to be wealthier than most other groups?
According to the Merton Thesis, there was a positive correlation between the rise of English Puritanism and German Pietism on the one hand and early experimental science on the other	The rise of English Puritanism and German Pietism resulted in a corresponding rise in what?
Martin Luther separated the religious and the worldly realms in principle 	What was the name of the doctrine that separated church and non-religious affairs?
Politically, Calvin favoured a mixture of aristocracy and democracy	What political mixture did Calvin prefer?
Consistent with Calvin's political ideas, Protestants created both the English and the American democracies	Whose democracies were created by Protestants?
Protestants also took the initiative in advocating for religious freedom	What group initiated the right to religious freedom?
Democracy, social-contract theory, separation of powers, religious freedom, separation of church and state – these achievements of the Reformation and early Protestantism were elaborated on and popularized by Enlightenment thinkers	What group popularized early Protestant teachings about separation of church and state?
For example, torture was abolished in Prussia in 1740, slavery in Britain in 1834 and in the United States in 1865 	When did Prussia stop torture?
"As an answer to the ""social question"" of the nineteenth century, Germany under Chancellor Otto von Bismarck introduced insurance programs that led the way to the welfare state "	Who first introduced social insurance programs?
World literature was enriched by the works of Edmund Spenser, John Milton, John Bunyan, John Donne, John Dryden, Daniel Defoe, William Wordsworth, Jonathan Swift, Johann Wolfgang Goethe, Friedrich Schiller, Samuel Taylor Coleridge, Edgar Allan Poe, Matthew Arnold, Conrad Ferdinand Meyer, Theodor Fontane, Washington Irving, Robert Browning, Emily Dickinson, Emily Brontë, Charles Dickens, Nathaniel Hawthorne, Thomas Stearns Eliot, John Galsworthy, Thomas Mann, William Faulkner, John Updike, and many others	What did John Milton do for world literature?
The view of the Roman Catholic Church is that Protestant denominations cannot be considered churches but rather that they are ecclesial communities or specific faith-believing communities because their ordinances and doctrines are not historically the same as the Catholic sacraments and dogmas, and the Protestant communities have no sacramental ministerial priesthood and therefore lack true apostolic succession	The Roman Catholic Church considers Protestant denominations to be what?
The Magisterial reformers, such as Martin Luther, John Calvin, and Huldrych Zwingli, believed that they were reforming the Roman Catholic Church, which they viewed as having become corrupted	Who were Magisterial reformers?
The Reformed churches thus believed in some form of Catholicity, founded on their doctrines of the five solas and a visible ecclesiastical organization based on the 14th and 15th century Conciliar movement, rejecting the papacy and papal infallibility in favor of ecumenical councils, but rejecting the latest ecumenical council, the Council of Trent	The Reformed churches based their beliefs about ecclesiastical organization on what movement?
Since 1948, the World Council of Churches has been influential, but ineffective in creating a united church	What group has been unsuccessful in creating a unified church since 1948?
A Protestant baptism is held to be valid by the Catholic Church if given with the trinitarian formula and with the intent to baptize	If done properly, what Protestant practice does the Catholic Church recognize?
In 1999, the representatives of Lutheran World Federation and Catholic Church signed the Joint Declaration on the Doctrine of Justification, apparently resolving the conflict over the nature of justification which was at the root of the Protestant Reformation, although Confessional Lutherans reject this statement	What document was signed in 1999?
There are more than 900 million Protestants worldwide, among approximately 2	How many Protestants are there in the world?
These include the Nordic countries and the United Kingdom	In what European areas is Protestantism still the most practiced religion?
Since 1900, Protestantism has spread rapidly in Africa, Asia, Oceania and Latin America	Where has Protestantism spread quickly since the 1900's?
Brasília ) is the federal capital of Brazil and seat of government of the Federal District	What is Brazil's capital?
The name 'Brasília' is commonly used as a synonym for the Federal District through synecdoche; However, the Federal District is composed of 31 administrative regions, only one of which is Brasília proper, with a population of 209,926 in a 2011 survey; Demographic publications generally do not make this distinction and list the population of Brasília as synonymous with the population of the Federal District, considering the whole of it as its metropolitan area	How many administrative regions does the Federal District have?
Juscelino Kubitschek, President of Brazil from 1956 to 1961, ordered the construction of Brasília, fulfilling the promise of the Constitution and his own political campaign promise	When did Kubitschek become President of Brazil?
With the Constitution of 1988 Brasília gained the right to elect its Governor, and a District Assembly was elected to exercise legislative power	When did Brazil pass a new Constitution?
Brasília has a tropical savanna climate according to the Köppen system, with two distinct seasons: the rainy season, from October to April, and a dry season, from May to September	What climate type does Brasilia have?
The Portuguese language is the official national language and the primary language taught in schools	What is Brazil's official language?
The Cathedral of Brasília in the capital of the Federative Republic of Brazil, is an expression of the architect Oscar Niemeyer	Who designed the Cathedral of Brasília?
Also in the square are the glass-faced Planalto Palace housing the presidential offices, and the Palace of the Supreme Court	What is in the Planalto Palace?
The residential zones of the inner city are arranged into superquadras : groups of apartment buildings along with a prescribed number and type of schools, retail stores, and open spaces	What are 'superquadras' or superblocks?
"After a visit to Brasília, the French writer Simone de Beauvoir complained that all of its superquadras exuded ""the same air of elegant monotony,"" and other observers have equated the city's large open lawns, plazas, and fields to wastelands"	Who complained that Brasilia was monotonous?
The major roles of construction and of services in Brasília's economy reflect the city's status as a governmental rather than an industrial center	What services are central to Brasilia's economy?
T	What major roles of Public Administration and Commerce show Brasilia as governmental rather than industrial?
Being a city registered by UNESCO, the government in Brasília has opted to encourage the development of non-polluting industries such as software, film, video, and gemology among others, with emphasis on environmental preservation and maintaining ecological balance, preserving the city property	What industries is Brasilia trying to encourage?
The city's planned design included specific areas for almost everything, including accommodation, Hotels Sectors North and South	Where did Brasilia place hotels?
Published in 2008, The World In Grey: Dom Bosco's Prophecy, by author Ryan J	When was 'The World In Grey' published?
Praça dos Três Poderes is a plaza in Brasília	What does 'Praça dos Três Poderes' mean?
The Palácio da Alvorada is the official residence of the President of Brazil	Where does Brazil's president live?
The Palace is four stories high, and has an area of 36,000 m2	How many floors does the Planalto have?
Following the airport's master plan, Infraero built a second runway, which was finished in 2006	When did Brasilia's airport add a second runway?
In 2014, the airport received 15 new boarding bridges, totalling 28 in all	How many boarding bridges does Brasilia's airport have?
The Juscelino Kubitschek bridge, also known as the 'President JK Bridge' or the 'JK Bridge', crosses Lake Paranoá in Brasília	What is the JK Bridge a nickname for?
The metro leaves the Rodoviária and goes south, avoiding most of the political and tourist areas	What is the Rodoviária?
In the original city plan, the interstate buses should also stop at the Central Station	Where did Brasilia's plan want interstate buses to stop?
Brasília is known as a departing point for the practice of unpowered air sports, sports that may be practiced with hang gliding or paragliding wings	What type of sports are popular in Brasilia?
Greece is a developed country with an economy based on the service (82	What type of country is Greece?
The country is a significant agricultural producer within the EU	What is Greece a significant producer of within the EU?
Greece is classified as an advanced, high-income economy, and was a founding member of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development and of the Organization of the Black Sea Economic Cooperation 	What does the abbreviation OECD expand to?
World War II devastated the country's economy, but the high levels of economic growth that followed from 1950 to 1980 have been called the Greek economic miracle	What years of economic growth was called Greece's economic miracle?
The evolution of the Greek economy during the 19th century has been little researched	What transformed a large part of the world in the 19th century?
After fourteen consecutive years of economic growth, Greece went into recession in 2008	How many years of consecutive growth had Greece had?
Greece was accused of trying to cover up the extent of its massive budget deficit in the wake of the global financial crisis	What was Greece accused of covering up the extent of?
Most of the differences in the revised budget deficit numbers were due to a temporary change of accounting practices by the new government, i	What were the majority of the differences in the revised budget due to the temporary changing of?
"In the 2005 OECD report for Greece, it was clearly stated that ""the impact of new accounting rules on the fiscal figures for the years 1997 to 1999 ranged from 0"	Who provided a report for Greece in 2005?
An error sometimes made is the confusion of discussion regarding Greece’s Eurozone entry with the controversy regarding usage of derivatives’ deals with U	What error is sometimes made by tying Greece's Eurozone entry with?
"According to Der Spiegel, credits given to European governments were disguised as ""swaps"" and consequently did not get registered as debt because Eurostat at the time ignored statistics involving financial derivatives"	What were credits given to European governments disguised as?
As a consequence, there was a crisis in international confidence in Greece's ability to repay its sovereign debt, as reflected by the rise of the country's borrowing rates 	What did the international banks have doubts about Greece's ability to repay?
Between 2005 and 2011, Greece has had the highest percentage increase in industrial output compared to 2005 levels out of all European Union members, with an increase of 6%	What did Greece have the highest percentage increase in between 2005 and 2011?
Greece has the largest merchant navy in the world, accounting for more than 15% of the world's total deadweight tonnage according to the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development	What does Greece have the largest of in the world?
6% of the world's tankers and 16	What percentage of Greece's GDP does shipping account for?
"Counting shipping as quasi-exports and in terms of monetary value, Greece ranked 4th globally in 2011 having ""exported"" shipping services worth 17,704"	When counting shipping as quasi-exports and in terms of monetary value, what is Greece's global rank?
Between 1949 and the 1980s, telephone communications in Greece were a state monopoly by the Hellenic Telecommunications Organization, better known by its acronym, OTE	Who ran the phones in Greece between 1949 and the 1980s?
Greece has tended to lag behind its European Union partners in terms of Internet use, with the gap closing rapidly in recent years	What does Greece lag behind other EU countries in terms of use?
Greece attracts more than 16 million tourists each year, thus contributing 18	How many millions of tourists does Greece attract each year?
In recent years a number of well-known tourism-related organizations have placed Greek destinations in the top of their lists	What have a number of tourism-related organizations placed Greek destinations at the top of?
Between 1975 and 2009, Olympic Airways was the country’s state-owned flag carrier, but financial problems led to its privatization and relaunch as Olympic Air in 2009	What was Olympic Airways known as after 2003?
Greece's rail network is estimated to be at 2,548 km	How long is Greek's rail network estimated to run?
According to Eurostat, Greece's largest port by tons of goods transported in 2010 is the port of Aghioi Theodoroi, with 17	What was Greece's largest port as measured by good transported in 2010?
In 2010 Piraeus handled 513,319 TEUs, followed by Thessaloniki, which handled 273,282 TEUs	How many TEUs did Piraeus handle in 2010?
Energy production in Greece is dominated by the Public Power Corporation 	Who dominates energy production in Greece?
In 2008 renewable energy accounted for 8% of the country's total energy consumption, a rise from the 7	How much of Greece's energy consumption came from renewable sources in 2008?
In addition to the above, Greece is also to start oil and gas exploration in other locations in the Ionian Sea, as well as the Libyan Sea, within the Greek exclusive economic zone, south of Crete	What is Greece set to start exploring the Ionian Sea for?
Between 1832 and 2002 the currency of Greece was the drachma	What was the currency of Greece until 2002?
The unemployment figure was between 9 per cent and 11 per cent in 2009, and it soared to 28 per cent in 2013	What was Greece's unemployment rate between in 2009?
Typically, the Speaker does not participate in debate and rarely votes on the floor	Does speaker of the House participate in dbate?
If the Minority Leader's party takes control of the House, and the party officers are all re-elected to their seats, the Minority Leader is usually the party's top choice for Speaker for the next Congress, while the Minority Whip is typically in line to become Majority Leader	Who takes over as Speaker if the minority party gains control of the house?
Like the Speaker of the House, the Minority Leaders are typically experienced lawmakers when they win election to this position	Are minority leaders usually experienced?
Halleck who became Republican House leader and Minority Leader from 1959 to 1965, Hale Boggs who died in a plane crash, and Dick Gephardt who became the Democrats' House leader but as Minority Leader since his party lost control in the 1994 midterm elections	What republican majority leader died in a plane crash?
Traditionally, the Speaker is reckoned as the leader of the majority party in the House, with the Majority Leader as second-in-command	Who is the leader of the majority leader in House?
As the minority party has one less leadership position after losing the speaker's chair, there may be a contest for the remaining leadership positions	Does the minority or majority party have more leadership positions in House?
For example, Rule XII, clause 6, grant the minority leader the right to offer a motion to recommit with instructions; Rule II, clause 6, states the Inspector General shall be appointed by joint recommendation of the Speaker, majority leader, and minority leader; and Rule XV, clause 6, provides that the Speaker, after consultation with the minority leader, may place legislation on the Corrections Calendar	What rule gives minority leader right to offer motion to recommit with instructions?
The roles and responsibilities of the minority leader are not well-defined	Are minority leadership roles specified closely?
To a large extent, the minority leader's position is a 20th-century innovation	When was the minority leader position created? 
During this early period, it was more usual that neither major party grouping had an official leader	In early 19th century, what were 2 common parties?
Internal party disunity compounded the difficulty of identifying lawmakers who might have informally functioned as a minority leader	What made identifying House leadership difficult?
"In the judgment of political scientist Randall Ripley, since 1883 ""the candidate for Speaker nominated by the minority party has clearly been the Minority Leader"	Who's contention is it that the minority party candidate is clearly Minority Leader since 1883?
"On the Democratic side, ""there were serious caucus fights for the minority speakership nomination in 1871 and 1873,"" indicating that the ""nomination carried with it some vestige of leadership"	Prior to 1883 there is evidence that serious caucus fights occured in what years?
In brief, there is disagreement among historical analysts as to the exact time period when the minority leadership emerged officially as a party position	Is there a consensus about the time that minority leadership officially emerged as a position?
Second, Democrats have always elevated their minority floor leader to the speakership upon reclaiming majority status	Which party has always elevated minority floor leaders to speakership?
In the instance when the Presidency and both Houses of Congress are controlled by one party, the Speaker normally assumes a lower profile and defers to the President	What is the leadership structure when party controls house and presidency?
The style and role of any minority leader is influenced by a variety of elements, including personality and contextual factors, such as the size and cohesion of the minority party, whether his or her party controls the White House, the general political climate in the House, and the controversy that is sometimes associated with the legislative agenda	What influences role of minority leader?
For instance, the minority leader is sometimes statutorily authorized to appoint individuals to certain federal entities; he or she and the majority leader each name three Members to serve as Private Calendar objectors; he or she is consulted with respect to reconvening the House per the usual formulation of conditional concurrent adjournment resolutions; he or she is a traditional member of the House Office Building Commission; he or she is a member of the United States Capitol Preservation Commission; and he or she may, after consultation with the Speaker, convene an early organizational party caucus or conference	How many private calendar objector members does minority leader appoint?
He or she is a member of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee; names the members of the Democratic Leadership Council; chairs the Policy Committee; and heads the Steering Committee	According to democratic rules of the 106th congress what committee does minority leader chair?
A party's floor leader, in conjunction with other party leaders, plays an influential role in the formulation of party policy and programs	Who plays an influential role in the formation of party policy?
There is hardly any major aspect of campaigning that does not engage their attention	How much concern do minority leaders have for campaigning?
The minority leader, in consultation with other party colleagues, has a range of strategic options that he or she can employ to advance minority party objectives	Does minority leader act solely to advance party objectives?
The purposes of obstruction are several, such as frustrating the majority party's ability to govern or attracting press and media attention to the alleged ineffectiveness of the majority party	What is the purpose of Obstruction?
An important aim of the minority leader is to develop an electorally attractive agenda of ideas and proposals that unites his or her own House members and that energizes and appeals to core electoral supporters as well as independents and swing voters	What important aim of minority leader pertaining to elections?
"For instance, to keep their party colleagues ""on message,"" they insure that partisan colleagues are sent packets of suggested press releases or ""talking points"" for constituent meetings in their districts; they help to organize ""town meetings"" in Members' districts around the country to publicize the party's agenda or a specific priority, such as health care or education; they sponsor party ""retreats"" to discuss issues and assess the party's public image; they create ""theme teams"" to craft party messages that might be raised during the one-minute, morning hour, or special order period in the House; they conduct surveys of party colleagues to discern their policy preferences; they establish websites that highlight and distribute party images and issues to users; and they organize task forces or issue teams to formulate party programs and to develop strategies for communicating these programs to the public"	How do minority leaders keep party priorities publicized?
House minority leaders also hold joint news conferences and consult with their counterparts in the Senate—and with the president if their party controls the White House	With whom does minority leader consult and participate in news conference?
If his or her party controls the White House, the minority leader confers regularly with the President and his aides about issues before Congress, the Administration's agenda, and political events generally	How often does minority leader speak with president when party controls white house?
I	When did Gephardt serve as Minority Leader?
When the White House is controlled by the House majority party, then the House minority leader assumes a larger role in formulating alternatives to executive branch initiatives and in acting as a national spokesperson for his or her party	What is the difference in role for Minority leader when majority party holds white house?
When we got to the amendment phase, we would offer our program as a substitute for the Johnson proposal	What options do minority party have in amendment phase?
Other techniques for fostering party harmony include the appointment of task forces composed of partisan colleagues with conflicting views to reach consensus on issues; the creation of new leadership positions as a way to reach out and involve a greater diversity of partisans in the leadership structure; and daily meetings in the Leader's office to lay out floor strategy or political objectives for the minority party	What is a good technique to foster party harmony?
The Chief Deputy Whip is the primary assistant to the whip, who is the chief vote counter for his or her party	Who is the chief vote counter for party?
Armenians constitute the main population of Armenia and the de facto independent Nagorno-Karabakh Republic	Where do Armenians mostly live besides Armenia?
The earliest attestations of the exonym Armenia date around the 6th century BC	How long ago has the term 'Armenia' been used?
The Armenian Highland lies in the highlands surrounding Mount Ararat, the highest peak of the region	What mountain does Armenia surround?
Hamp in his 2012 Indo-European family tree, groups the Armenian language along with Greek and Ancient Macedonian in the Pontic Indo-European subgroup	What languages does Hamp say are similar to Armenian?
The first geographical entity that was called Armenia by neighboring peoples was established in the late 6th century BC under the Orontid dynasty within the Achaemenid Persian Empire as part of the latters' territories, and which later became a kingdom	When was Armenia established?
The Arsacid Kingdom of Armenia, itself a branch of the Arsacid dynasty of Parthia, was the first state to adopt Christianity as its religion 	What was the first country to make Christianity its official religion?
In 885 AD the Armenians reestablished themselves as a sovereign kingdom under the leadership of Ashot I of the Bagratid Dynasty	When did Armenia become a sovereign kingdom?
In the late 1820s, the parts of historic Armenia under Iranian control centering on Yerevan and Lake Sevan were incorporated into the Russian Empire following Iran's forced ceding of the territories after its loss in the Russo-Persian War and the outcoming Treaty of Turkmenchay	When did the Russo-Persian War begin?
Governments of Republic of Turkey since that time have consistently rejected charges of genocide, typically arguing either that those Armenians who died were simply in the way of a war or that killings of Armenians were justified by their individual or collective support for the enemies of the Ottoman Empire	Who says they didn't kill Armenians as genocide, just because they were 'in the way of the war'?
Following the breakup of the Russian Empire in the aftermath of World War I for a brief period, from 1918 to 1920, Armenia was an independent republic	What was Armenia's status from 1918 to 1920?
Armenians have had a presence in the Armenian Highland for over four thousand years, since the time when Hayk, the legendary patriarch and founder of the first Armenian nation, led them to victory over Bel of Babylon	How long have Armenians lived in the highlands?
For example, a community has existed for over a millennium in the Holy Land, and one of the four quarters of the walled Old City of Jerusalem has been called the Armenian Quarter	What is the Armenian Quarter?
For example, Armenians who originate from Iran are referred to as Parskahay , while Armenians from Lebanon are usually referred to as Lipananahay 	What are Parskahay?
Armenia established a Church that still exists independently of both the Catholic and the Eastern Orthodox churches, having become so in 451 AD as a result of its stance regarding the Council of Chalcedon	When did Armenia's church become independent?
"The Armenians collective has, at times, constituted a Christian ""island"" in a mostly Muslim region"	What religion is dominant in the countries surrounding Armenia?
These include the Armenian Catholic Church , the Armenian Evangelical Church, which started as a reformation in the Mother church but later broke away, and the Armenian Brotherhood Church, which was born in the Armenian Evangelical Church, but later broke apart from it	Which Armenian church recognizes the Pope?
Armenian literature dates back to 400 AD, when Mesrop Mashtots first invented the Armenian alphabet	Who came up with the Armenian alphabet?
The first Armenian churches were built between the 4th and 7th century, beginning when Armenia converted to Christianity, and ending with the Arab invasion of Armenia	When were early Armenian Christian churches built?
This period was ended by the Seljuk invasion	Who invaded Armenia in the 11th century?
The first medal won by an Armenian in modern Olympic history was by Hrant Shahinyan, who won two golds and two silvers in gymnastics at the 1952 Summer Olympics in Helsinki	When did Armenia begin winning Olympic medals?
Instruments like the duduk, the dhol, the zurna and the kanun are commonly found in Armenian folk music	What kind of music does Sayat Nova play?
"Richard Hagopian is perhaps the most famous artist of the traditional ""kef"" style and the Vosbikian Band was notable in the 40s and 50s for developing their own style of ""kef music"" heavily influenced by the popular American Big Band Jazz of the time"	What type of music is Richard Hagopian famous for?
Carpet-weaving is historically a major traditional profession for the majority of Armenian women, including many Armenian families	What job do many Armenian women traditionally do?
"Art historian Hravard Hakobyan notes that ""Artsakh carpets occupy a special place in the history of Armenian carpet-making"	What is Hakobyan's career?
Arguably the favorite food is khorovats an Armenian-styled barbecue	What is khorovats?
Jehovah's Witnesses is a millenarian restorationist Christian denomination with nontrinitarian beliefs distinct from mainstream Christianity	What are the Jehovah Witnesses?
Jehovah's Witnesses are best known for their door-to-door preaching, distributing literature such as The Watchtower and Awake	What are Jehovah witnesses best known for?
In 1870, Charles Taze Russell and others formed a group in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, to study the Bible	When did Charles Taze Russell form a group?
From 1879, Watch Tower supporters gathered as autonomous congregations to study the Bible topically	When did Watch Tower supporters gather as autonomous congregations to study the Bible?
Russell moved the Watch Tower Society's headquarters to Brooklyn, New York, in 1909, combining printing and corporate offices with a house of worship; volunteers were housed in a nearby residence he named Bethel	When did Russell move the Society's headquarters to Brooklyn?
In January 1917, the Watch Tower Society's legal representative, Joseph Franklin Rutherford, was elected as its next president	Who was elected as the Watch Tower Society's president in January of 1917?
In 1919, he instituted the appointment of a director in each congregation, and a year later all members were instructed to report their weekly preaching activity to the Brooklyn headquarters	What did Rutherford institute the appointment of in each congregation in 1919?
"On July 26, 1931, at a convention in Columbus, Ohio, Rutherford introduced the new name—Jehovah's witnesses—based on Isaiah 43:10: ""Ye are my witnesses, saith Jehovah, and my servant whom I have chosen""—which was adopted by resolution"	When did Rutherford introduce the new name for the Society?
"From 1932, it was taught that the ""little flock"" of 144,000 would not be the only people to survive Armageddon"	From when was it taught that the little flock would not be the only people to survive Armageddon?
Nathan Knorr was appointed as third president of the Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society in 1942	Who was appointed as the third president of the Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society in 1942?
From 1966, Witness publications and convention talks built anticipation of the possibility that Christ's thousand-year reign might begin in late 1975 or shortly thereafter	From 1966, what did Witness publications and conventions think would happen in late 1975?
The offices of elder and ministerial servant were restored to Witness congregations in 1972, with appointments made from headquarters 	When was the offices of restored to the Witness congregations?
"Jehovah's Witnesses are organized hierarchically, in what the leadership calls a ""theocratic organization"", reflecting their belief that it is God's ""visible organization"" on earth"	How are Jehovah Witnesses organized?
Each congregation has a body of appointed unpaid male elders and ministerial servants	What does each congregation have?
Baptism is a requirement for being considered a member of Jehovah's Witnesses	What is a requirement for being considered a member of Jehovah's Witnesses?
Jehovah's Witnesses believe their religion is a restoration of first-century Christianity	What do Jehovah Witnesses believe their religion is a restoration of?
The entire Protestant canon of scripture is considered the inspired, inerrant word of God	What is considered the inspired, inerrant word of God?
"Jehovah's Witnesses believe that Jesus is God's only direct creation, that everything else was created by means of Christ, and that the initial unassisted act of creation uniquely identifies Jesus as God's ""only-begotten Son"""	Who do Jehovah Witnesses believe is God's only direct creation?
"Witnesses believe that a ""little flock"" go to heaven, but that the hope for life after death for the majority of ""other sheep"" involves being resurrected by God to a cleansed earth after Armageddon"	Jehovah Witnesses believe who will go to heaven?
"Jehovah's Witnesses believe that God's kingdom is a literal government in heaven, ruled by Jesus Christ and 144,000 ""spirit-anointed"" Christians drawn from the earth, which they associate with Jesus' reference to a ""new covenant"""	What do Jehovah Witnesses believe of God's kingdom?
"A central teaching of Jehovah's Witnesses is that the current world era, or ""system of things"", entered the ""last days"" in 1914 and faces imminent destruction through intervention by God and Jesus Christ, leading to deliverance for those who worship God acceptably"	One of Jehovah Witnesses' central teachings is that the world entered into its last days at what year?
"Jehovah's Witnesses believe that Jesus Christ began to rule in heaven as king of God's kingdom in October 1914, and that Satan was subsequently ousted from heaven to the earth, resulting in ""woe"" to humanity"	On what date do Jehovah Witnesses believe Jesus Christ began his rule as a king in God's kingdom?
Meetings for worship and study are held at Kingdom Halls, which are typically functional in character, and do not contain religious symbols	Where do Jehovah Witnesses meet for worship and study?
Jehovah's Witnesses are perhaps best known for their efforts to spread their beliefs, most notably by visiting people from house to house, distributing literature published by the Watch Tower Society in 700 languages	What are Jehovah Witnesses probably best known for by outsiders?
"Divorce is discouraged, and remarriage is forbidden unless a divorce is obtained on the grounds of adultery, which they refer to as ""a scriptural divorce"""	What is Jehovah Witnesses' view of divorce?
Formal discipline is administered by congregation elders	Who administers formal discipline?
Jehovah's Witnesses believe that the Bible condemns the mixing of religions, on the basis that there can only be one truth from God, and therefore reject interfaith and ecumenical movements	Why do Jehovah Witnesses believe the Bible condemns mixing of religions?
Jehovah's Witnesses believe their highest allegiance belongs to God's kingdom, which is viewed as an actual government in heaven, with Christ as king	Who is king of God's kingdom in heaven?
They do not work in industries associated with the military, do not serve in the armed services, and refuse national military service, which in some countries may result in their arrest and imprisonment	What industries do Jehovah Witnesses avoid working in?
Jehovah's Witnesses refuse blood transfusions, which they consider a violation of God's law based on their interpretation of Acts 15:28, 29 and other scriptures	What biblical passage informs Jehovah Witnesses' refusal of blood transfusions?
Though Jehovah's Witnesses do not accept blood transfusions of whole blood, they may accept some blood plasma fractions at their own discretion	What are Jehovah Witnesses allowed to accept at their discretion? 
2 million publishers—the term they use for members actively involved in preaching—in 118,016 congregations	What term do Jehovah's Witnesses use for members actively involved in preaching?
The official published membership statistics, such as those mentioned above, include only those who submit reports for their personal ministry; official statistics do not include inactive and disfellowshipped individuals or others who might attend their meetings	Where do the officially published membership statistics come from?
Sociologist James A	What is the profession of James A. Beckford?
A sociological comparative study by the Pew Research Center found that Jehovah's Witnesses in the United States ranked highest in statistics for getting no further than high school graduation, belief in God, importance of religion in one's life, frequency of religious attendance, frequency of prayers, frequency of Bible reading outside of religious services, belief their prayers are answered, belief that their religion can only be interpreted one way, belief that theirs is the only one true faith leading to eternal life, opposition to abortion, and opposition to homosexuality	Jehovah's Witnesses in the United States ranked highest in people whose education extended no further than what?
Political and religious animosity against Jehovah's Witnesses has at times led to mob action and government oppression in various countries	What has at times led to immense violence against Jehovah's Witnesses?
Authors including William Whalen, Shawn Francis Peters and former Witnesses Barbara Grizzuti Harrison, Alan Rogerson and William Schnell have claimed the arrests and mob violence in the United States in the 1930s and 1940s were the consequence of what appeared to be a deliberate course of provocation of authorities and other religions by Jehovah’s Witnesses	Who were Jehovah's Witnesses accused of intentionally provoking in the 1930s and 1940s?
In the United States, their persistent legal challenges prompted a series of state and federal court rulings that reinforced judicial protections for civil liberties	What did Jehovah's Witnesses persistent legal challenges result in, in the United States?
Doctrines of Jehovah's Witnesses are established by the Governing Body	Who establishes the doctrines of the Jehovah's Witnesses?
Former members Heather and Gary Botting compare the cultural paradigms of the religion to George Orwell's Nineteen Eighty-four, and Alan Rogerson describes the religion's leadership as totalitarian	What do former Jehovah's Witnesses members Heath and Gary Botting compare the culture of the religion to?
"Sociologist Rodney Stark states that Jehovah's Witness leaders are ""not always very democratic"" and that members ""are expected to conform to rather strict standards,"" but adds that ""enforcement tends to be very informal, sustained by the close bonds of friendship within the group"", and that Jehovah's Witnesses see themselves as ""part of the power structure rather than subject to it"	What profession did Rodney Stark grow up to become?
"On the other hand, in his study on nine of ""the Bibles most widely in use in the English-speaking world"", Bible scholar Jason BeDuhn, Professor of Religious Studies at the Northern Arizona University, wrote: “The NW emerges as the most accurate of the translations compared"	What is the New World Translation the most accurate translation of?
Watch Tower Society publications have claimed that God has used Jehovah's Witnesses to declare his will and has provided advance knowledge about Armageddon and the establishment of God's kingdom	Who do Watch Tower Society publications claim God has used?
"The Watch Tower Society rejects accusations that it is a false prophet, stating that its teachings are not inspired or infallible, and that it has not claimed its predictions were ""the words of Jehovah"	What accusations does the Watch Tower Society reject?
Jehovah's Witnesses have been accused of having policies and culture that help to conceal cases of sexual abuse within the organization	What are Jehovah's Witnesses accused of concealing within their organization?
The religion's failure to report abuse allegations to authorities has also been criticized	What has the Jehovah's Witnesses failure to report to authorities been criticized? 
"Dwight David ""Ike"" Eisenhower (/ˈaɪzənˌhaʊ"	What was Eisenhower's nickname?
Eisenhower's main goals in office were to keep pressure on the Soviet Union and reduce federal deficits	Along with reducing the federal deficit, what was Eisenhower's main policy priority as president?
After the Soviet Union launched the world's first artificial satellite in 1957, Eisenhower authorized the establishment of NASA, which led to the space race	In what year did the Soviets launch humanity's first artificial satellite?
On the domestic front, he covertly opposed Joseph McCarthy and contributed to the end of McCarthyism by openly invoking the modern expanded version of executive privilege	Why political movement was named for Joseph McCarthy?
His parents set aside specific times at breakfast and at dinner for daily family Bible reading	What book did Eisenhower's parents read every day?
Eisenhower attended Abilene High School and graduated with the class of 1909	In what year did Eisenhower graduate from high school?
Edgar took the first turn at school, and Dwight was employed as a night supervisor at the Belle Springs Creamery	Where did Eisenhower work during his brother's first year of college?
"Doud Dwight ""Icky"" Eisenhower was born September 24, 1917, and died of scarlet fever on January 2, 1921, at the age of three; Eisenhower was mostly reticent to discuss his death"	What was Doud Eisenhower's nickname?
Eisenhower was a golf enthusiast later in life, and joined the Augusta National Golf Club in 1948	What sport did Eisenhower notably enjoy?
After golf, oil painting was Eisenhower's second hobby	What was Eisenhower's favorite hobby other than golfing?
Angels in the Outfield was Eisenhower's favorite movie	What was Eisenhower's favorite film?
In February 1918 he was transferred to Camp Meade in Maryland with the 65th Engineers	What unit did Eisenhower serve with at Camp Meade?
This time his wishes were thwarted when the armistice was signed, just a week before departure	How long before Eisenhower was to be transferred to France did World War I end?
He assumed duties again at Camp Meade, Maryland, commanding a battalion of tanks, where he remained until 1922	What was Eisenhower's Camp Meade unit equipped with?
He first became executive officer to General Conner in the Panama Canal Zone, where, joined by Mamie, he served until 1924	What role did Eisenhower serve under Fox Conner?
He was assigned to the American Battle Monuments Commission directed by General Pershing, and with the help of his brother Milton Eisenhower, then a journalist at the Agriculture Department, he produced a guide to American battlefields in Europe	Who was the head of the American Battle Monuments Commission during this period?
His primary duty was planning for the next war, which proved most difficult in the midst of the Great Depression	What event made war planning difficult in this period?
Eisenhower was promoted to the rank of permanent lieutenant colonel in 1936	What rank was Eisenhower promoted to in 1936?
in December 1939 and was assigned as a battalion commander and regimental executive officer of the 15th Infantry at Fort Lewis, Washington	What unit did Eisenhower serve with upon his return to the United States?
After the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor, Eisenhower was assigned to the General Staff in Washington, where he served until June 1942 with responsibility for creating the major war plans to defeat Japan and Germany	To what body was Eisenhower assigned after Pearl Harbor was attacked?
Arnold, commanding general of the Army Air Forces, to London to assess the effectiveness of the theater commander in England, Maj	To what city did Eisenhower travel to May 1942?
In November 1942, he was also appointed Supreme Commander Allied Expeditionary Force of the North African Theater of Operations through the new operational Headquarters Allied Force Headquarters FHQ)	What appointment did Eisenhower receive in November of 1942?
His primary objective was to move forces successfully into Tunisia, and intending to facilitate that objective, he gave his support to François Darlan as High Commissioner in North Africa, despite Darlan's previous high offices of state in Vichy France and his continued role as commander-in-chief of the French armed forces	What geographic area was the primary objective of Eisenhower?
Operation Torch also served as a valuable training ground for Eisenhower's combat command skills; during the initial phase of Generalfeldmarschall Erwin Rommel's move into the Kasserine Pass, Eisenhower created some confusion in the ranks by some interference with the execution of battle plans by his subordinates	What was Rommel's rank?
After the capitulation of Axis forces in North Africa, Eisenhower oversaw the highly successful invasion of Sicily	What did the Allies invade after they conquered North Africa?
In December 1943, President Roosevelt decided that Eisenhower – not Marshall – would be Supreme Allied Commander in Europe	Other than Eisenhower, who was considered for the appointment of Supreme Allied Commander in Europe?
Eisenhower then designed a bombing plan in France in advance of Overlord and argued with Churchill over the latter's concern with civilian casualties; de Gaulle interjected that the casualties were justified in shedding the yoke of the Germans, and Eisenhower prevailed	What concern did Churchill have in regard to Eisenhower's pre-invasion bombing plan?
The D-Day Normandy landings on June 6, 1944, were costly but successful	When did the Normandy invasion occur?
Field Marshal Montgomery insisted priority be given to his 21st Army Group's attack being made in the north, while Generals Bradley (12th U	What unit did Montgomery command?
In recognition of his senior position in the Allied command, on December 20, 1944, he was promoted to General of the Army, equivalent to the rank of Field Marshal in most European armies	What European rank was equivalent to that of General of the Army?
The Germans launched a surprise counter offensive, in the Battle of the Bulge in December 1944, which the Allies turned back in early 1945 after Eisenhower repositioned his armies and improved weather allowed the Air Force to engage	When did the Battle of the Bulge begin?
Occupation Zone, based at the IG Farben Building in Frankfurt am Main	In what structure was Eisenhower's headquarters in the US Occupation Zone?
In November 1945, Eisenhower returned to Washington to replace Marshall as Chief of Staff of the Army	Who was Chief of Staff of the Army before Eisenhower?
In June 1943 a visiting politician had suggested to Eisenhower that he might become President of the United States after the war	When was it suggested to Eisenhower that he might one day become president?
"In January 1948, after learning of plans in New Hampshire to elect delegates supporting him for the forthcoming Republican National Convention, Eisenhower stated through the Army that he was ""not available for and could not accept nomination to high political office""; ""life-long professional soldiers"", he wrote, ""in the absence of some obvious and overriding reason, abstain from seeking high political office"""	What state's delegates were considering supporting Eisenhower in 1948?
In 1948, Eisenhower became President of Columbia University, an Ivy League university in New York City	What position did Eisenhower occupy in 1948?
"Eisenhower's stint as the president of Columbia University was punctuated by his activity within the Council on Foreign Relations, a study group he led as president concerning the political and military implications of the Marshall Plan, and The American Assembly, Eisenhower's ""vision of a great cultural center where business, professional and governmental leaders could meet from time to time to discuss and reach conclusions concerning problems of a social and political nature"""	While Eisenhower was president of Columbia, what group did he also work with?
Secretary of Defense James Forrestal on the unification of the armed services	What position was held by James Forrestal?
The contacts gained through university and American Assembly fund-raising activities would later become important supporters in Eisenhower's bid for the Republican party nomination and the presidency	Aside from his university work, where did Eisenhower gain useful contacts?
The trustees of Columbia University refused to accept Eisenhower's resignation in December 1950, when he took an extended leave from the university to become the Supreme Commander of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization , and he was given operational command of NATO forces in Europe	When was Eisenhower's resignation of Columbia turned down?
President Truman, symbolizing a broad-based desire for an Eisenhower candidacy for president, again in 1951 pressed him to run for the office as a Democrat	Who was President of the United States prior to Eisenhower?
In the general election, against the advice of his advisors, Eisenhower insisted on campaigning in the South, refusing to surrender the region to the Democratic Party	In what part of the country, previously neglected by Republican presidential candidates, did Eisenhower campaign?
The second issue centered on Eisenhower's relented decision to confront the controversial methods of Joseph McCarthy on his home turf in a Wisconsin appearance	What was the home state of Joseph McCarthy?
Eisenhower was the last president born in the 19th century, and at age 62, was the oldest man elected President since James Buchanan in 1856 	How old was Truman in 1948?
Humphrey with whom he developed his closest relationships, and one woman, Oveta Culp Hobby	What woman was a member of Eisenhower's cabinet?
Prior to his inauguration, Eisenhower led a meeting of advisors at Pearl Harbor addressing foremost issues; agreed objectives were to balance the budget during his term, to bring the Korean War to an end, to defend vital interests at lower cost through nuclear deterrent, and to end price and wage controls	What war did Eisenhower want to end as president?
"A self-described ""progressive conservative,"" he continued all the major New Deal programs still in operation, especially Social Security"	How did Eisenhower describe his political views?
As the 1954 congressional elections approached, and it became evident that the Republicans were in danger of losing their thin majority in both houses, Eisenhower was among those blaming the Old Guard for the losses, and took up the charge to stop suspected efforts by the right wing to take control of the GOP	What wing of the GOP was Eisenhower opposed to?
Initially Eisenhower planned on serving only one term, but as with other decisions, he maintained a position of maximum flexibility in case leading Republicans wanted him to run again	Upon election, how many terms did Eisenhower believe he would serve?
His subsequent experience with encountering German autobahn limited-access road systems during the concluding stages of World War II convinced him of the benefits of an Interstate Highway System	What German transportation project influenced Eisenhower on highways?
In 1953, the Republican Party's Old Guard presented Eisenhower with a dilemma by insisting he disavow the Yalta Agreements as beyond the constitutional authority of the Executive Branch; however, the death of Joseph Stalin in March 1953 made the matter a practical moot point	What agreements did the GOP Old Guard want Eisenhower to abandon?
Indeed, Eisenhower embarked upon a greater reliance on the use of nuclear weapons, while reducing conventional forces, and with them the overall defense budget, a policy formulated as a result of Project Solarium and expressed in NSC 162/2	What did Eisenhower reduce as he increased nuclear weapons stockpiles?
The failure of negotiations over arms until 1955 was due mainly to the refusal of the Russians to permit any sort of inspections	Why did nuclear arms negotiations with Russia fail prior to 1955?
Likewise, the fall of Guatemala would end with the fall of neighboring Mexico	What country did Eisenhower believe communists would conquer if they took over Guatemala?
With Eisenhower's leadership and Dulles' direction, CIA activities increased under the pretense of resisting the spread of communism in poorer countries; the CIA in part deposed the leaders of Iran in Operation Ajax, of Guatemala through Operation Pbsuccess, and possibly the newly independent Republic of the Congo 	Who was the director of the CIA?
Over New York City in 1953, Eastern Airlines Flight 8610, a commercial flight, had a near miss with Air Force Flight 8610, a Lockheed C-121 Constellation known as Columbine II, while the latter was carrying President Eisenhower	What make and model aircraft was Air Force Flight 8610?
On the whole, Eisenhower's support of the nation's fledgling space program was officially modest until the Soviet launch of Sputnik in 1957, gaining the Cold War enemy enormous prestige around the world	What caused Eisenhower to kickstart the US space program?
Once in office, when the Chinese began a buildup in the Kaesong sanctuary, he threatened to use nuclear force if an armistice was not concluded	Where did the Chinese begin to increase forces after Eisenhower entered the White House?
In July 1953, an armistice took effect with Korea divided along approximately the same boundary as in 1950	The boundary line of what year formed the 1953 armistice line?
In November 1956, Eisenhower forced an end to the combined British, French and Israeli invasion of Egypt in response to the Suez Crisis, receiving praise from Egyptian president Gamal Abdel Nasser	Along with the British and Israelis, what forces invaded Egypt in 1956?
Early in 1953, the French asked Eisenhower for help in French Indochina against the Communists, supplied from China, who were fighting the First Indochina War	What war was being fought by France in 1953?
Eisenhower did provide France with bombers and non-combat personnel	Aside from bombers, what aid did Eisenhower provide to the French?
Eisenhower responded to the French defeat with the formation of the SEATO Alliance with the U	What is SEATO?
"Lawton Collins was made ambassador to ""Free Vietnam"" , effectively elevating the country to sovereign status"	What was South Vietnam called in 1955?
military advisors in South Vietnam to 900 men	How many soldiers did Eisenhower ultimately send to Vietnam?
On May 1, 1960, a U	When was a U-2 downed over the Soviet Union?
"As a result, the Eisenhower Administration, thinking the pilot had died in the crash, authorized the release of a cover story claiming that the plane was a ""weather research aircraft"" which had unintentionally strayed into Soviet airspace after the pilot had radioed ""difficulties with his oxygen equipment"" while flying over Turkey"	What did the Eisenhower administration refer to the downed U-2 as?
The 1960 Four Power Paris Summit between President Dwight Eisenhower, Nikita Khrushchev, Harold Macmillan and Charles de Gaulle collapsed because of the incident	Along with Eisenhower, Macmillan and de Gaulle, what leader attended the Four Powers Paris Summit?
While President Truman had begun the process of desegregating the Armed Forces in 1948, actual implementation had been slow	Which president initially began to desegregate the US military?
Eisenhower told District of Columbia officials to make Washington a model for the rest of the country in integrating black and white public school children	Who did Eisenhower tell DC officials to integrate?
In 1957, the state of Arkansas refused to honor a federal court order to integrate their public school system stemming from the Brown decision	What state refused to integrate its schools in 1957?
In late 1953 McCarthy declared on national television that the employment of communists within the government was a menace and would be a pivotal issue in the 1954 Senate elections	In what year did Joseph McCarthy declare that the federal government was employing communists?
Among Ike's objectives in not directly confronting McCarthy was to prevent McCarthy from dragging the Atomic Energy Commission into McCarthy's witch hunt for communists, which would interfere with, and perhaps delay, the AEC's important work on H-bombs	What organization did Eisenhower want to keep from being one of McCarthy's targets?
In May 1955, McCarthy threatened to issue subpoenas to White House personnel	What did McCarthy threaten to do in May of 1955?
The Democrats gained a majority in both houses in the 1954 election	Who won a Senate majority in 1954?
"Speaker Martin concluded that Eisenhower worked too much through subordinates in dealing with Congress, with results, ""often the reverse of what he has desired"" because Members of Congress, ""resent having some young fellow who was picked up by the White House without ever having been elected to office himself coming around and telling them 'The Chief wants this'"	What did Martin think Eisenhower did too much of in his relations with Congress?
Stewart and Harlan were conservative Republicans, while Brennan was a Democrat who became a leading voice for liberalism	What were Harlan and Stewart's party affiliations?
Eisenhower began smoking cigarettes at West Point, often two or three packs a day	Where did Eisenhower pick up the habit of smoking?
As a consequence of his heart attack, Eisenhower developed a left ventricular aneurysm, which was in turn the cause of a mild stroke on November 25, 1957	What caused Eisenhower's stroke of 1957?
Eventually after leaving the White House, he suffered several additional and ultimately crippling heart attacks	What August 1965 event caused Eisenhower to drop out of public life?
In the 1960 election to choose his successor, Eisenhower endorsed his own Vice President, Republican Richard Nixon against Democrat John F	Who did Eisenhower endorse for president in 1960?
On January 17, 1961, Eisenhower gave his final televised Address to the Nation from the Oval Office	On what date did Eisenhower deliver his farewell speech?
Eisenhower retired to the place where he and Mamie had spent much of their post-war time, a working farm adjacent to the battlefield at Gettysburg, Pennsylvania, only 70 miles from his ancestral home in Elizabethville, Dauphin County, Pennsylvania	What town did Eisenhower retire to after his presidency?
On the morning of March 28, 1969, at the age of 78, Eisenhower died in Washington, D	How old was Eisenhower when he died?
His body arrived on April 2, and was interred later that day in a small chapel on the grounds of the Eisenhower Presidential Library	When did Eisenhower's funeral train arrive in Abilene, Kansas?
He was widely seen by critics as an inactive, uninspiring, golf-playing president compared to his vigorous young successor	In popular memory, what sport was Eisenhower known for playing?
Eisenhower formalized this role, introducing the office of White House Chief of Staff – an idea he borrowed from the United States Army	From where did Eisenhower get the idea of a White House Chief of Staff?
A total of twenty designs are cataloged with a total mintage of 9,858	How many appreciation medals were minted?
It was inspired in part by Eisenhower's own Army experiences in World War II, where he recognized the advantages of the autobahn systems in Germany, Austria, and Switzerland	Along with Germany and Switzerland, what country contained an autobahn during the Second World War?
"A loblolly pine, known as the ""Eisenhower Pine"", was located on Augusta's 17th hole, approximately 210 yards from the Masters tee"	At what Augusta hole was the Eisenhower Pine located?
The Bronx /ˈbrɒŋks/ is the northernmost of the five boroughs of New York City in the state of New York, located south of Westchester County	How many boroughs are in NYC?
The Bronx is named after Jonas Bronck who created the first settlement as part of the New Netherland colony in 1639	Who is the Bronx named for?
The Bronx contains one of the five poorest Congressional Districts in the United States, the 15th, but its wide diversity also includes affluent, upper-income and middle-income neighborhoods such as Riverdale, Fieldston, Spuyten Duyvil, Schuylerville, Pelham Bay, Pelham Gardens, Morris Park and Country Club	How poor is part of the Bronx?
 1600–43) was a Swedish born emigrant from Komstad, Norra Ljunga parish in Småland, Sweden who arrived in New Netherland during the spring of 1639	When was Jonas Bronck born?
(The County of Bronx, unlike the coextensive Borough of the Bronx, does not place the immediately before Bronx in formal references, nor does the United States Postal Service in its database of Bronx addresses	What is the Bronx's county name?
"In 1759, the farmers led by Jacobus Dyckman and Benjamin Palmer built a ""free bridge"" across the Harlem River which led to the abandonment of tolls altogether"	When did farmers build a bridge over the Harlem River?
The territory now contained within Bronx County was originally part of Westchester County, one of the 12 original counties of the English Province of New York	How many counties did New York originally have?
In 1873, the state legislature annexed Kingsbridge, West Farms and Morrisania to New York, effective in 1874; the three towns were abolished in the process	When did New York City annex Kingsbridge?
The history of the Bronx during the 20th century may be divided into four periods: a boom period during 1900–29, with a population growth by a factor of six from 200,000 in 1900 to 1	When was the Bronx's boom period?
In 1937, according to Jewish organizations, 592,185 Jews lived in The Bronx (43	How many Jews lived in the Bronx in 1937?
There was also much debate as to whether rent control laws had made it less profitable for landlords to maintain existing buildings with their existing tenants than to abandon or destroy those buildings	What might have encouraged landlords to abandon or destroy buildings?
In the 1970s, the Bronx was plagued by a wave of arson	What crime was common in the Bronx in the 1970s?
"Since the late 1980s, significant development has occurred in the Bronx, first stimulated by the city's ""Ten-Year Housing Plan"" and community members working to rebuild the social, economic and environmental infrastructure by creating affordable housing"	What city plan helped redevelop the Bronx?
In 1997, the Bronx was designated an All America City by the National Civic League, acknowledging its comeback from the decline of the mid-century	What award did the Bronx receive in 1997?
The Kingsbridge Armory, often cited as the largest armory in the world, is scheduled for redevelopment as the Kingsbridge National Ice Center	What was the largest armory in the world?
The Hudson River separates the Bronx on the west from Alpine, Tenafly and Englewood Cliffs in Bergen County, New Jersey; the Harlem River separates it from the island of Manhattan to the southwest; the East River separates it from Queens to the southeast; and to the east, Long Island Sound separates it from Nassau County in western Long Island	What's on the other side of the Hudson from the Bronx?
The Bronx's highest elevation at 280 feet is in the northwest corner, west of Van Cortlandt Park and in the Chapel Farm area near the Riverdale Country School	Where is the Bronx's highest point?
The land for these parks, and many others, was bought by New York City in 1888, while land was still open and inexpensive, in anticipation of future needs and future pressures for development	When did NYC buy land for its parks?
East of the Bronx River, the borough is relatively flat and includes four large low peninsulas, or 'necks,' of low-lying land which jut into the waters of the East River and were once saltmarsh: Hunts Point, Clason's Point, Screvin's Neck and Throgs Neck	What is Screvin's Neck also called?
The western parts of the Bronx are hillier and are dominated by a series of parallel ridges, running south to north	What parts of the Bronx have more hills?
The name has been used to represent poverty in the Bronx and applied to progressively more northern places so that by the 2000s Fordham Road was often used as a northern limit	Why has the supposed size of the 'South Bronx' grown?
There are three primary shopping centers in the Bronx: The Hub, Gateway Center and Southern Boulevard	What in the Bronx has been compared to Broadway?
The Gateway Center at Bronx Terminal Market, in the West Bronx, is a shopping center that encompasses less than one million square feet of retail space, built on a 17 acres site that formerly held the Bronx Terminal Market, a wholesale fruit and vegetable market as well as the former Bronx House of Detention, south of Yankee Stadium	How much land was the Gateway Center at Bronx Terminal Market built on?
Like the northernmost part of upper Manhattan, the West Bronx's hilly terrain leaves a relatively free-style street grid	What part of Manhattan are the West Bronx's streets similar to?
320,640 whites called the Bronx home, of which 168,570 were non-Hispanic whites	How many white people live in the Bronx?
"Over 61,000 people identified themselves as ""Sub-Saharan African"" in the survey, making up 4"	"How many Bronx residents called themselves ""Sub-Saharan African"" in 2009?"
People of multiracial heritage number over 41,800 individuals and represent 3	How many multiracial people live in the Bronx?
"In 1989 the Supreme Court of the United States declared the Board of Estimate unconstitutional on the grounds that Brooklyn, the most populous borough, had no greater effective representation on the Board than Staten Island, the least populous borough, a violation of the Fourteenth Amendment's Equal Protection Clause pursuant to the high court's 1964 ""one man, one vote"" decision"	When was the 'one man, one vote' decision?
Until March 1, 2009, the Borough President of the Bronx was Adolfo Carrión Jr	When did Carrion Jr. retire as Borough President?
Since then, the Bronx has always supported the Democratic Party's nominee for President, starting with a vote of 2-1 for the unsuccessful Al Smith in 1928, followed by four 2-1 votes for the successful Franklin D	Who did the Bronx support for President in 1928?
The only Republican to carry the Bronx since 1914 was Fiorello La Guardia in 1933, 1937 and 1941 	Who was the only Republican Mayor candidate to win the Bronx since 1914?
In 2000, public schools enrolled nearly 280,000 of the Bronx's residents over 3 years old 	How many students attended the Bronx public noncharter schools as of 2000?
The Bronx is also home to three of New York City's most prestigious private, secular schools: Fieldston, Horace Mann, and Riverdale Country School	Which of NYC's prestigious nonreligious private schools are in the Bronx?
In the 1990s, New York City began closing the large, public high schools in the Bronx and replacing them with small high schools	When did NYC begin splitting up the large Bronx high schools?
"The Bronx's evolution from a hot bed of Latin jazz to an incubator of hip hop was the subject of an award-winning documentary, produced by City Lore and broadcast on PBS in 2006, ""From Mambo to Hip Hop: A South Bronx Tale"""	When did a PBS documentary air about the Bronx's music history?
The Herculoids, made up of Herc, Coke La Rock, and DJ Clark Kent, were the earliest to gain major fame	Who were the Herculoids?
The original Yankee Stadium opened in 1923 on 161st Street and River Avenue, a year that saw the Yankees bring home their first of 27 World Series Championships	When did the first Yankee Stadium open?
The Bronx is home to several Off-Off-Broadway theaters, many staging new works by immigrant playwrights from Latin America and Africa	Where are many of the Bronx's playwrights from?
The Bronx Museum of the Arts, founded in 1971, exhibits 20th century and contemporary art through its central museum space and 11,000 square feet of galleries	When did the Bronx Museum of the Arts open?
The Bronx has also become home to a peculiar poetic tribute, in the form of the Heinrich Heine Memorial, better known as the Lorelei Fountain from one of Heine's best-known works 	When was the Lorelei Fountain written about?
In 1899, the memorial, by the Berlin sculptor Ernst Gustav Herter , finally came to rest, although subject to repeated vandalism, in the Bronx, at 164th Street and the Grand Concourse, or Joyce Kilmer Park near today's Yankee Stadium	When did Herter die?
The City Island Historical Society and Nautical Museum occupies a former public school designed by the New York City school system's turn-of-the-last-century master architect C	What was the City Island Historical Society and Nautical Museum's building originally?
The Bronx has several local newspapers, including The Bronx News, Parkchester News, City News, The Riverdale Press, Riverdale Review, The Bronx Times Reporter, Inner City Press and Co-Op City Times	What does the Inner City Press now focus on?
The City of New York has an official television station run by the NYC Media Group and broadcasting from Bronx Community College, and Cablevision operates News 12 The Bronx, both of which feature programming based in the Bronx	Where is the official city TV station broadcast from?
Hollywood films such as From This Day Forward , set in Highbridge, occasionally delved into Bronx life	When was 'From This Day Forward' released?
"The wave of arson in the South Bronx in the 1960s and 1970s inspired the observation that ""The Bronx is burning"": in 1974 it was the title of both a New York Times editorial and a BBC documentary film"	Where was arson a big problem in the Bronx?
Bronx gang life was depicted in the 1974 novel The Wanderers by Bronx native Richard Price and the 1979 movie of the same name	When was 'The Wanderers' published?
The 1981 film Fort Apache, The Bronx is another film that used the Bronx's gritty image for its storyline	When was 'Fort Apache' released?
Bronx native Nancy Savoca's 1989 comedy, True Love, explores two Italian-American Bronx sweethearts in the days before their wedding	When was 'True Love' released?
Penny Marshall's 1990 film Awakenings, which was nominated for several Oscars, is based on neurologist Oliver Sacks' 1973 account of his psychiatric patients at Beth Abraham Hospital in the Bronx who were paralyzed by a form of encephalitis but briefly responded to the drug L-dopa	"When did ""Awakenings"" come out?"
All of the characters in Herman Wouk's City Boy: The Adventures of Herbie Bookbinder live in the Bronx, and about half of the action is set there	When was 'City Boy: The Adventures of Herbie Bookbinder' published?
By contrast, Tom Wolfe's Bonfire of the Vanities portrays a wealthy, white protagonist, Sherman McCoy, getting lost off the Major Deegan Expressway in the South Bronx and having an altercation with locals	Who wrote 'Bonfire of the Vanities'?
It threatened the collapse of large financial institutions, which was prevented by the bailout of banks by national governments, but stock markets still dropped worldwide	What action in 2007 by national governments prevented the collapse of large financial institutions?
 housing bubble, which peaked in 2004, caused the values of securities tied to U	What year did the U.S. housing bubble peak?
"Senate's Levin–Coburn Report concluded that the crisis was the result of ""high risk, complex financial products; undisclosed conflicts of interest; the failure of regulators, the credit rating agencies, and the market itself to rein in the excesses of Wall Street"	What is the name of the U.S. Senate report giving their conclusions for the cause of the crisis?
As part of the housing and credit booms, the number of financial agreements called mortgage-backed securities and collateralized debt obligations , which derived their value from mortgage payments and housing prices, greatly increased	What are MBS as related to the housing and credit booms?
The ongoing foreclosure epidemic that began in late 2006 in the U	What year did the foreclosure epidemic begin?
Thus, policymakers did not immediately recognize the increasingly important role played by financial institutions such as investment banks and hedge funds, also known as the shadow banking system	What institutions comprise the shadow banking system?
These institutions, as well as certain regulated banks, had also assumed significant debt burdens while providing the loans described above and did not have a financial cushion sufficient to absorb large loan defaults or MBS losses	Some regulated banks did not have sufficient financial cushions in place to absorb what losses as a result of the financial crisis of 2007?
Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission reported its findings in January 2011	When did the U.S. Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission report its findings?
During a period of tough competition between mortgage lenders for revenue and market share, and when the supply of creditworthy borrowers was limited, mortgage lenders relaxed underwriting standards and originated riskier mortgages to less creditworthy borrowers	What caused mortgage lenders to relax underwriting standards and approve riskier mortgages?
The majority report of the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission, written by the six Democratic appointees, the minority report, written by 3 of the 4 Republican appointees, studies by Federal Reserve economists, and the work of several independent scholars generally contend that government affordable housing policy was not the primary cause of the financial crisis	How many Democratic appointees wrote the majority report of the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission?
4	How many Republican appointees wrote the minority report of the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission?
Wallison stated his belief that the roots of the financial crisis can be traced directly and primarily to affordable housing policies initiated by HUD in the 1990s and to massive risky loan purchases by government-sponsored entities Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac	Which government-sponsored entities had massive risky loan purchases?
In the early and mid-2000s, the Bush administration called numerous times for investigation into the safety and soundness of the GSEs and their swelling portfolio of subprime mortgages	Which administration called for investigation into the soundness of GSEs in the early and mid-2000s?
A 2000 United States Department of the Treasury study of lending trends for 305 cities from 1993 to 1998 showed that $467 billion of mortgage lending was made by Community Reinvestment Act -covered lenders into low and mid level income borrowers and neighborhoods, representing 10% of all U	What was the value of mortgage lending made by Community Reinvestment Act covered lenders to low and mid level income borrowers and neighborhoods from 1993-1998?
To other analysts the delay between CRA rule changes and the explosion of subprime lending is not surprising, and does not exonerate the CRA	When did CRA make rule changes to relax underwriting standards?
""" Essentially, investment banks and hedge funds used financial innovation to enable large wagers to be made, far beyond the actual value of the underlying mortgage loans, using derivatives called credit default swaps, collateralized debt obligations and synthetic CDOs"	Credit default swaps, collateralized debt obligations and CDOS are all types of what?
residential housing bubble led to financial crisis was that it was supported by a huge number of substandard loans – generally with low or no downpayments	Peter J. Wallison believes that the huge number of these loans led to the financial crisis?
Krugman's contention (that the growth of a commercial real estate bubble indicates that U	Who believed that the growth of the commercial real estate bubble indicated that U.S. housing policy was not the cause of the crisis?
Investment banks on Wall Street answered this demand with products such as the mortgage-backed security and the collateralized debt obligation that were assigned safe ratings by the credit rating agencies	What is one investment assigned safe ratings by the credit rating agencies?
The collateralized debt obligation in particular enabled financial institutions to obtain investor funds to finance subprime and other lending, extending or increasing the housing bubble and generating large fees	What is the name of the securities that enabled financial institutions to obtain investor funds to finance subprime?
housing prices had declined by over 20% from their mid-2006 peak	How much had average U.S. housing prices declined by September 2008?
This was done to soften the effects of the collapse of the dot-com bubble and the September 2001 terrorist attacks, as well as to combat a perceived risk of deflation	What is one reason the Federal Reserve lowered the federal funds rate target to 1.0% in 2003?
current account deficit increased by $650 billion, from 1	Per Bernanke, how much did the U.S. current account deficit increase between 1996 and 2004?
The Fed then raised the Fed funds rate significantly between July 2004 and July 2006	When did the Fed begin raising Fed funds rate significantly?
Bowen III on events during his tenure as the Business Chief Underwriter for Correspondent Lending in the Consumer Lending Group for Citigroup suggests that by the final years of the U	Richard M. Bowen III testified to the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission regarding his tenure at which financial institution?
In separate testimony to Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission, officers of Clayton Holdings—the largest residential loan due diligence and securitization surveillance company in the United States and Europe—testified that Clayton's review of over 900,000 mortgages issued from January 2006 to June 2007 revealed that scarcely 54% of the loans met their originators’ underwriting standards	Who was the largest residential loan due diligence and securitization surveillance company?
"Predatory lending refers to the practice of unscrupulous lenders, enticing borrowers to enter into ""unsafe"" or ""unsound"" secured loans for inappropriate purposes"	What is the name for lending that entices borrowers to enter into unsafe secured loans?
"Countrywide, sued by California Attorney General Jerry Brown for ""unfair business practices"" and ""false advertising"" was making high cost mortgages ""to homeowners with weak credit, adjustable rate mortgages that allowed homeowners to make interest-only payments"""	Who sued Countrywide for unfair business practices and false advertising?
Critics such as economist Paul Krugman and U	What economist believed that regulations did not keep up with financial innovation?
Prior to the crisis, financial institutions became highly leveraged, increasing their appetite for risky investments and reducing their resilience in case of losses	What did financial institutions do prior to the crisis?
From 2004 to 2007, the top five U	How many U.S. investment banks significantly increased their financial leverage from 2004 to 2007?
, saving more during adverse economic conditions) can be detrimental if too many individuals pursue the same behavior, as ultimately one person's consumption is another person's income	What is an example of something that can be detrimental if too many individuals pursue the same behavior?
"Federal Reserve vice-chair Janet Yellen discussed these paradoxes: ""Once this massive credit crunch hit, it didn’t take long before we were in a recession"	Who was the U.S. Federal Reserve vice-chair in April 2009?
The term financial innovation refers to the ongoing development of financial products designed to achieve particular client objectives, such as offsetting a particular risk exposure or to assist with obtaining financing	What term refers to the ongoing development of financial products?
CDO issuance grew from an estimated $20 billion in Q1 2004 to its peak of over $180 billion by Q1 2007, then declined back under $20 billion by Q1 2008	When did the issuance of CDO peak?
This boom in innovative financial products went hand in hand with more complexity	Which products created more complexity in the financial markets?
The pricing of risk refers to the incremental compensation required by investors for taking on additional risk, which may be measured by interest rates or fees	What is a measurement of pricing of risk?
For a variety of reasons, market participants did not accurately measure the risk inherent with financial innovation such as MBS and CDOs or understand its impact on the overall stability of the financial system	What did market participants fail to measure accurately?
Another example relates to AIG, which insured obligations of various financial institutions through the usage of credit default swaps	What firm insured obligations of various financial institutions using credit default swaps?
"George Soros commented that ""The super-boom got out of hand when the new products became so complicated that the authorities could no longer calculate the risks and started relying on the risk management methods of the banks themselves"	Who commented that the super-boom got out of hand when products became so complicated that risk could not be accurately calculated?
Moreover, a conflict of interest between professional investment managers and their institutional clients, combined with a global glut in investment capital, led to bad investments by asset managers in over-priced credit assets	What led to bad investments by asset managers in over-priced credit assets?
"The volume ""Credit Correlation: Life After Copulas"", published in 2007 by World Scientific, summarizes a 2006 conference held by Merrill Lynch in London where several practitioners attempted to propose models rectifying some of the copula limitations"	"Who published ""Credit Correlation: Life After Copulas"" in 2007?"
"In a June 2008 speech, President and CEO of the New York Federal Reserve Bank Timothy Geithner—who in 2009 became Secretary of the United States Treasury—placed significant blame for the freezing of credit markets on a ""run"" on the entities in the ""parallel"" banking system, also called the shadow banking system"	Who was President and CEO of the New York Federal Reserve Bank in June 2008?
The securitization markets supported by the shadow banking system started to close down in the spring of 2007 and nearly shut-down in the fall of 2008	When did the securitization markets supported by the shadow banking systems start to close down?
"Economist Mark Zandi testified to the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission in January 2010: ""The securitization markets also remain impaired, as investors anticipate more loan losses"	What economist testified to the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission in January 2010?
Rapid increases in a number of commodity prices followed the collapse in the housing bubble	Following the collapse in the housing bubble, what happened to a number of commodity prices?
In testimony before the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation on June 3, 2008, former director of the CFTC Division of Trading & Markets Michael Greenberger specifically named the Atlanta-based IntercontinentalExchange, founded by Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley and BP as playing a key role in speculative run-up of oil futures prices traded off the regulated futures exchanges in London and New York	Who was the former director of the CFTC that testified before the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation on June 3, 2008?
Feminist economists Ailsa McKay and Margunn Bjørnholt argue that the financial crisis and the response to it revealed a crisis of ideas in mainstream economics and within the economics profession, and call for a reshaping of both the economy, economic theory and the economics profession	Who is one of the feminist economists that believe the financial crisis revealed a crisis of mainstream economics and call for a complete reshaping of the economy?
Current Governor of the Reserve Bank of India Raghuram Rajan had predicted the crisis in 2005 when he became chief economist at the International Monetary Fund	Who was the current Governor of the Reserve Bank of India that predicted the crisis in 2005?
The financial crisis was not widely predicted by mainstream economists except Raghuram Rajan, who instead spoke of the Great Moderation	Who was one of the only mainstream economist to predict the financial crisis?
A cover story in BusinessWeek magazine claims that economists mostly failed to predict the worst international economic crisis since the Great Depression of the 1930s	Which magazine ran a cover story claiming that most economists failed to the the financial crisis?
"Stock trader and financial risk engineer Nassim Nicholas Taleb, author of the 2007 book The Black Swan, spent years warning against the breakdown of the banking system in particular and the economy in general owing to their use of bad risk models and reliance on forecasting, and their reliance on bad models, and framed the problem as part of ""robustness and fragility"""	Who wrote the 2007 book The Black Swan?
"Market strategist Phil Dow believes distinctions exist ""between the current market malaise"" and the Great Depression"	Who is the market strategist that believes distinctions exist between the current crisis and the Great Depression?
One of the first victims was Northern Rock, a medium-sized British bank	Which medium sized British bank was the first victim of the financial crisis?
The first visible institution to run into trouble in the United States was the Southern California–based IndyMac, a spin-off of Countrywide Financial	Which financial institution was the first one visible to run into trouble in the United States?
IndyMac often made loans without verification of the borrower’s income or assets, and to borrowers with poor credit histories	IndyMac often made loans without verifying what?
IndyMac reported that during April 2008, Moody's and Standard & Poor's downgraded the ratings on a significant number of Mortgage-backed security bonds including $160 million of those issued by IndyMac and which the bank retained in its MBS portfolio	When did Moody's and Standard & Poor downgrade a significant number of IndyMac's MBS bonds?
Senator Charles Schumer would later point out that brokered deposits made up more than 37 percent of IndyMac's total deposits and ask the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation whether it had considered ordering IndyMac to reduce its reliance on these deposits	Who is the Senator that asked FDIC if it had considered ordering IndyMac to reduce its reliance on brokered deposits?
This “run” on the thrift followed the public release of a letter from Senator Charles Schumer to the FDIC and OTS	"Who is the Senator that released a letter to the FDIC and OTS that prompted a ""run"" on IndyMac?"
On July 11, 2008, citing liquidity concerns, the FDIC put IndyMac Bank into conservatorship	On what date did the FDIC put IndyMac Bank into conservatorship?
Over 100 mortgage lenders went bankrupt during 2007 and 2008	How many mortgage lenders went bankrupt during 2007 and 2008?
In September 2008, the crisis hit its most critical stage	When did the financial crisis hit its most critical stage?
Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner explain the credit crisis via the implosion of the shadow banking system, which had grown to nearly equal the importance of the traditional commercial banking sector as described above	Economist Paul Krugman explained the credit crisis via the implosion of which system?
This meant that nearly one-third of the U	How much of the U.S. lending mechanism was frozen until June 2009?
Between June 2007 and November 2008, Americans lost an estimated average of more than a quarter of their collective net worth	How much net worth did Americans lose between June 2007 and November 2008?
On the other hand, a homeowner who has no equity is a serious default risk	According to economist Dean Baker, a homeowner who has no equity if this type default risk?
The continuing development of the crisis has prompted fears of a global economic collapse although there are now many cautiously optimistic forecasters in addition to some prominent sources who remain negative	In 2008, what type collapse was feared?
consumption accounted for more than a third of the growth in global consumption between 2000 and 2007	According to The Brookings Institution report in June 2009, how much growth did U.S. consumption account for between 2000 and 2007?
For example, growth forecasts in Cambodia show a fall from more than 10% in 2007 to close to zero in 2009, and Kenya may achieve only 3–4% growth in 2009, down from 7% in 2007	What is the growth forecast for Cambodia in 2009?
The World Bank reported in February 2009 that the Arab World was far less severely affected by the credit crunch	What area of the world was less severely affected by the credit crunch according to The World Bank report In February 2009?
The output of goods and services produced by labor and property located in the United States—decreased at an annual rate of approximately 6% in the fourth quarter of 2008 and first quarter of 2009, versus activity in the year-ago periods	What was the annual rate of decrease for the output of goods and services produced by labor and property in 4Q 2008 and 1Q 2009?
On the other hand, half of the poorest families did not have wealth declines at all during the crisis	How many of the poorest families did not have any wealth decline during the financial crisis?
On November 3, 2008, the European Commission at Brussels predicted for 2009 an extremely weak growth of GDP, by 0	On November 3, 2008, who predicted extremely weak GDP growth for the Eurozone in 2009?
Federal Reserve and central banks around the world have taken steps to expand money supplies to avoid the risk of a deflationary spiral, in which lower wages and higher unemployment lead to a self-reinforcing decline in global consumption	What have central banks around the world done to avoid the risk of a deflationary spiral?
This credit freeze brought the global financial system to the brink of collapse	What brought the global financial system to the brink of collapse?
United States President Barack Obama and key advisers introduced a series of regulatory proposals in June 2009	What was introduced by President Barack Obama in June 2009?
Senate passed a reform bill in May 2010, following the House which passed a bill in December 2009	When did the U.S. Senate first pass a financial reform bill?
European regulators introduced Basel III regulations for banks	What did European regulators introduce to increase the oversight of banks?
recession that began in December 2007 ended in June 2009, according to the U	When did the U.S. recession that began in December 2007 end?
"Advanced economies led global economic growth prior to the financial crisis with ""emerging"" and ""developing"" economies lagging behind"	Who led global economic growth after the financial crisis?
It is the westernmost country of mainland Europe, being bordered by the Atlantic Ocean to the west and south and by Spain to the north and east	What ocean does Portugal border?
The Celts and the Romans were followed by the Visigothic and the Suebi Germanic peoples, who were themselves later invaded by the Moors	Who were the first inhabitants of Portugal?
Portugal lost much of its wealth and status with the destruction of Lisbon in a 1755 earthquake, occupation during the Napoleonic Wars, and the independence of Brazil, its wealthiest colony, in 1822	In Portugal, which city was destroyed in the 1755 earthquake?
Portugal maintains a unitary semi-presidential republican form of government and is a developed country with an advanced economy, and a high living standard, having the 18th highest Social Progress in the world, putting it ahead of other Western European countries like France, Spain and Italy	What form of government does Portugal maintain?
The name of Portugal derives from the joined Romano-Celtic name Portus Cale	From what name is Portugal derived?
In 27 BC, Lusitania gained the status of Roman province	In what year did Lusitania become a Roman province?
After defeating the Visigoths in only a few months, the Umayyad Caliphate started expanding rapidly in the peninsula	How long did it take the Umayyad Caliphate to defeat the Visigoths?
The governors of the taifas each proclaimed themselves Emir of their provinces and established diplomatic relations with the Christian kingdoms of the north	What were the governors of the taifas called?
The Muslim population of the region consisted mainly of native Iberian converts to Islam and to a lesser extent Berbers and Arabs	What are converts to Islam called?
Pelayos' plan was to use the Cantabrian mountains as a place of refuge and protection from the invading Moors	What was Pelayos' plan?
After annexing the County of Portugal into one of the several counties that made up the Kingdom of Asturias, King Alfonso III of Asturias knighted Vimara Peres, in 868 AD, as the First Count of Portus Cale 	Who annexed the County of Portugal into the Kingdom of Asturias?
The eldest son, García, became king of León	Who was the eldest son of Alfonso III and what did he become king of?
As a result of political division, Galician-Portuguese lost its unity when the County of Portugal separated from the Kingdom of Galicia to establish the Kingdom of Portugal	The County of Portugal separated from the Kingdom of Galicia to establish what?
In 1348 and 1349 Portugal, like the rest of Europe, was devastated by the Black Death	Which years were plagued by the Black Death?
Portugal spearheaded European exploration of the world and the Age of Discovery	What European age did Portugal spearhead?
In 1738, Sebastião José de Carvalho e Melo, 1st Marquis of Pombal, began a diplomatic career as the Portuguese Ambassador in London and later in Vienna	Who was the 1st Marquis of Pombal?
As the King's confidence in de Melo increased, the King entrusted him with more control of the state	Did the King's confidence in de Melo increase or decrease?
But Sebastião de Melo's greatest reforms were economic and financial, with the creation of several companies and guilds to regulate every commercial activity	What were de Melo's greatest reforms?
The new city centre of Lisbon was designed to resist subsequent earthquakes	What type of natural disaster was the city center of Lisbon designed to resist?
In 1758 Joseph I was wounded in an attempted assassination	What happened to Joseph I in 1758?
Following the Távora affair, the new Count of Oeiras knew no opposition	Was the new Count of Oeiras opposed by anyone after the Tavora affair?
With the occupation by Napoleon, Portugal began a slow but inexorable decline that lasted until the 20th century	Under whose occupation did Portugal begin a slow decline?
As a result of the change in its status and the arrival of the Portuguese royal family, Brazilian administrative, civic, economical, military, educational, and scientific apparatus were expanded and highly modernized	What provoked the modernization and expansion of the Brazilian administrative, civic, economical, military, educational, and scientific apparatus?
With the Conference of Berlin of 1884, Portuguese Africa territories had their borders formally established on request of Portugal in order to protect the centuries-long Portuguese interests in the continent from rivalries enticed by the Scramble for Africa	When was the Conference of Berlin held?
On 1 February 1908, the king Dom Carlos I of Portugal and his heir apparent, Prince Royal Dom Luís Filipe, Duke of Braganza, were murdered in Lisbon	On what day were King Dom Carlos I and and his heir, Prince Royal Dom Luis Filipe, Duke of Braganza, murdered?
This in turn led to the establishment of the right-wing dictatorship of the Estado Novo under António de Oliveira Salazar in 1933	Who led the Estado Novo?
The Portuguese government and army successfully resisted the decolonization of its overseas territories until April 1974, when a bloodless left-wing military coup in Lisbon, known as the Carnation Revolution, led the way for the independence of the overseas territories in Africa and Asia, as well as for the restoration of democracy after two years of a transitional period known as PREC 	Until when did the Portuguese government resist decolonization of their overseas territories?
The country continued to be governed by a Junta de Salvação Nacional until the Portuguese legislative election of 1976	What entity governed Portugal until 1976?
The country bounced between socialism and adherence to the neoliberal model	Between which two political ideals did Portugal bounce between?
Portugal is defined as a Mediterranean climate according to the Köppen-Geiger Climate Classification), and is one of the warmest European countries: the annual average temperature in mainland Portugal varies from 8–12 °C (46	What type of climate does Portugal have?
Both the archipelagos of the Azores and Madeira have a subtropical climate, although variations between islands exist, making weather predictions very difficult 	What type of climate do the archipelagos of the Azores and Madeira have?
In Gerês both deciduous and coniferous forests can be found, an extremely rare worldwide mature mediterranean forest remain in some parts of the Arrábida mountain and a subtropical laurissilva forest, dating back to the Tertiary period, covers its largest continuous area in the world in the Madeira main island	What two types of forests can be found in Geres?
Laurisilva is a unique type of subtropical rainforest found in few areas of Europe and the world: in the Azores, and in particular on the island of Madeira, there are large forests of endemic Laurisilva forests 	What is Laurisilva?
There are more than 100 freshwater fish species, varying from the giant European catfish to some small and endemic species that live only in small lakes 	How many freshwater fish species can be found in Portugal?
The President, who is elected to a five-year term, has an executive role: the current President is Aníbal Cavaco Silva	For how many years is the Portugal president elected?
The Assembly of the Republic, Regional Assemblies and local municipalities and parishes, are dominated by two political parties, the Socialist Party and the Social Democratic Party, in addition to the Unitary Democratic Coalition , the Left Bloc and the Democratic and Social Centre – People's Party, which garner between 5 and 15% of the vote regularly	What two political parties dominate Portugal's government?
The Head of State of Portugal is the President of the Republic, elected to a five-year term by direct, universal suffrage	Who is the Head of State of Portugal?
The Council of Ministers – under the presidency of the Prime Minister and the Ministers – acts as the cabinet	What group acts as the presidential cabinet?
Portuguese law applied in the former colonies and territories and continues to be the major influence for those countries	Portuguese law continues to be a major influence for what?
In 2001, Portugal decriminalized possession of effectively all drugs that are still illegal in other developed nations including, but not limited to, cannabis, cocaine, heroin, and LSD	In which year did Portugal decriminalize drug possession?
Administratively, Portugal is divided into 308 municipalities , which after a reform in 2013 are subdivided into 3,092 civil parishes 	How many municipalities is Portugal divided into?
The armed forces have three branches: Navy, Army and Air Force	How many branches make up the Portuguese armed forces?
The Army comprises three brigades and other small units	What is the number of personnel in the army?
In the 20th century, Portugal engaged in two major conflicts: World War I and the Portuguese Colonial War 	In what two major conflicts did Portugal engage in during the 20th century?
After the bailout was announced, the Portuguese government headed by Pedro Passos Coelho managed to implement measures with the intention of improve the State's financial situation, including tax hikes, a freeze of civil service-related lower-wages and cuts of higher-wages by 14	Who headed the government after the bailout was announced?
A report released in January 2011 by the Diário de Notícias and published in Portugal by Gradiva, had demonstrated that in the period between the Carnation Revolution in 1974 and 2010, the democratic Portuguese Republic governments encouraged over-expenditure and investment bubbles through unclear Public–private partnerships and funding of numerous ineffective and unnecessary external consultancy and advisory of committees and firms	Between 1974 and 2010, how did the Portuguese government encourage over-expenditure and investment bubbles?
After the financial crisis of 2007–08, it was known in 2008–2009 that two Portuguese banks and Banco Privado Português ) had been accumulating losses for years due to bad investments, embezzlement and accounting fraud	In what two years was there a financial crisis?
The Portuguese currency is the euro , which replaced the Portuguese Escudo, and the country was one of the original member states of the eurozone	What currency does Portugal use?
Since the Carnation Revolution of 1974, which culminated in the end of one of Portugal's most notable phases of economic expansion , a significant change has occurred in the nation's annual economic growth	In which year did the Carnation Revolution take place?
In the second decade of the 21st century the Portuguese economy suffered its most severe recession since the 1970s resulting in the country having to be bailed out by the European Commission, European Central Bank and International Monetary Fund	By what entities was the Portuguese economy bailed out?
Agriculture in Portugal is based on small to medium-sized family-owned dispersed units	Upon what is Portuguese agriculture based?
Portuguese processed fish products are exported through several companies, under a number of different brands and registered trademarks, such as Ramirez , Bom Petisco, Nero, Combate, Comur, General, Líder, Manná, Murtosa, Pescador, Pitéu, Tenório, Torreira and Vasco da Gama	Which company is the world's oldest canned fish producer?
Portugal is a significant European minerals producer and is ranked among Europe's leading copper producers	What mineral is Portugal ranked as a leading European producer of?
Industry is diversified, ranging from automotive , aerospace , electronics and textiles, to food, chemicals, cement and wood pulp	What automotive brands exist in Portugal?
Travel and tourism continue to be extremely important for Portugal, with visitor numbers forecast to increase significantly in the future	Portuguese tourist numbers are expected to do what in the future?
"The poor performance of the Portuguese economy was explored in April 2007 by The Economist, which described Portugal as ""a new sick man of Europe"""	"What magazine described Portugal as ""a new sick man of Europe?"""
"On 6 April 2011, after his proposed ""Plan for Stability and Growth IV"" was rejected by the Parliament, Prime Minister José Sócrates announced on national television that the country would request financial assistance from the IMF and the European Financial Stability Facility, as Greece and the Republic of Ireland had done previously"	What did Prime Minister Jose Socrates announce on April 6, 2011?
By EU and USA standards, Portugal's justice system was internationally known as being slow and inefficient, and by 2011 it was the second slowest in Western Europe ; conversely, Portugal has one of the highest rates of judges and prosecutors—over 30 per 100,000 people	In comparison to EU and USA standards, how was Portugal's justice system regarded?
In the first week of May 2013, Prime Minister Passos Coelho announced a significant government plan for the public sector, whereby 30,000 jobs will be cut and the number of weekly working hours will be increased from 35 to 40 hours	Who was the Portugal Prime Minister in 2013?
Passos Coelho also announced that the retirement age will be increased from 65 to 66, announced cuts in the pensions, unemployment benefits, health, education and science expenses, abolished the English obligatory classes in Basic Education, but kept the pensions of the judges, diplomats untouched and didn't raise the retirement age of the military and police forces	To what age did Passos Coelho increase the retirement age?
After years of high increase, the unemployment in Portugal has been in a continuous falling trend since the third quarter of 2014, decreasing from a peak of 17	Since when has the Portugal unemployment rate been in a falling trend?
Tourist hotspots in Portugal are Lisbon, Algarve, Madeira, Porto and the city of Coimbra, also, between 4-5 million religious pilgrims visit Fátima each year, where apparitions of the Blessed Virgin Mary to three shepherd children reportedly took place in 1917	What are the tourist hotspots in Portugal?
By the early 1970s Portugal's fast economic growth with increasing consumption and purchase of new automobiles set the priority for improvements in transportation	What prompted transportation improvements in Portugal in the 1970's?
Continental Portugal's 89,015 km2 territory is serviced by four international airports located near the principal cities of Lisbon, Porto, Faro and Beja	How much land does the Continental Portugal cover?
A national railway system that extends throughout the country and into Spain, is supported and administered by Comboios de Portugal	Into what country does Portugal's railway system expand?
The two largest metropolitan areas have subway systems: Lisbon Metro and Metro Sul do Tejo in the Lisbon Metropolitan Area and Porto Metro in the Porto Metropolitan Area, each with more than 35 km of lines	What are the two subway systems in Portugal?
Scientific and technological research activities in Portugal are mainly conducted within a network of R&D units belonging to public universities and state-managed autonomous research institutions like the INETI – Instituto Nacional de Engenharia, Tecnologia e Inovação and the INRB – Instituto Nacional dos Recursos Biológicos	In what type of network are most scientific research studies conducted in Portugal?
Among the largest non-state-run research institutions in Portugal are the Instituto Gulbenkian de Ciência and the Champalimaud Foundation, a neuroscience and oncology research centre, which in addition awards every year one of the highest monetary prizes of any science prize in the world	What are two of the large non-state run research institutions in Portugal?
Portugal has the largest aquarium in Europe, the Lisbon Oceanarium, and the Portuguese have several other notable organizations focused on science-related exhibits and divulgation, like the state agency Ciência Viva, a programme of the Portuguese Ministry of Science and Technology to the promotion of a scientific and technological culture among the Portuguese population, the Science Museum of the University of Coimbra, the National Museum of Natural History at the University of Lisbon, and the Visionarium	What is the name of the largest European aquarium?
With the emergence and growth of several science parks throughout the world that helped create many thousands of scientific, technological and knowledge-based businesses, Portugal started to develop several science parks across the country	What was responsible for creating thousands of scientific, technological, and knowledge-based businesses?
Portugal has considerable resources of wind and river power, the two most cost-effective renewable sources	What are the two most considerable sources of renewable energy in Portugal?
Portugal’s national energy transmission company, Redes Energéticas Nacionais , uses sophisticated modeling to predict weather, especially wind patterns, and computer programs to calculate energy from the various renewable-energy plants	What is the name of Portugal's national energy transmission company?
The Statistics Portugal estimates that, according to the 2011 census, the population was 10,562,178 	What was the Portuguese population in 2011?
The most important demographic influence in the modern Portuguese seems to be the oldest one; current interpretation of Y-chromosome and mtDNA data suggests that the Portuguese have their origin in Paleolithic peoples that began arriving to the European continent around 45,000 years ago	In what group of people do the Portuguese have their origin?
Portugal's colonial history has long since been a cornerstone of its national identity, as has its geographic position at the south-western corner of Europe, looking out into the Atlantic Ocean	What is the cornerstone of Portugal's national identity?
The country has small Protestant, Latter-day Saint, Muslim, Hindu, Sikh, Eastern Orthodox Church, Jehovah's Witnesses, Baha'i, Buddhist, Jewish and Spiritist communities	What other religious communities exist in Portugal?
Many Portuguese holidays, festivals and traditions have a Christian origin or connotation	In what religion do many Portuguese holidays and festivals find their origin?
The story associated with this miracle tells that before the Battle of Ourique , an old hermit appeared before Count Afonso Henriques as a divine messenger	On what date did the Battle of Ourique take place?
Portuguese is the official language of Portugal	What is the official name of Portugal?
The Portuguese language is derived from the Latin spoken by the romanized Pre-Roman peoples of the Iberian Peninsula around 2000 years ago—particularly the Celts, Tartessians, Lusitanians and Iberians	From what language is Portuguese derived?
The total adult literacy rate is 99 percent	What is the adult literacy rate in Portugal?
Portuguese universities have existed since 1290	Since when have Portuguese universities existed?
The Bologna process has been adopted, since 2006, by Portuguese universities and poly-technical institutes	When was the Bologna process adopted?
The Ministry of Health is responsible for developing health policy as well as managing the SNS	What is the Ministry of Health responsible for?
Similar to the other Eur-A countries, most Portuguese die from noncommunicable diseases	What do most Portuguese people die from?
Thus, survey results based on self-reporting at the household level complement other data on health status and the use of services	What survey results complement on data on health status?
In the 1990s and 2000s , Portugal modernized its public cultural facilities, in addition to the Calouste Gulbenkian Foundation established in 1956 in Lisbon	Portugal modernized its public cultural facilities during what two decades?
Traditional architecture is distinctive and include the Manueline, also known as Portuguese late Gothic, a sumptuous, composite Portuguese style of architectural ornamentation of the first decades of the 16th century	What is the Manueline style also known as?
Portuguese cinema has a long tradition, reaching back to the birth of the medium in the late 19th century	In which period was cinema born?
Adventurer and poet Luís de Camões (c	Who was Luís de Camões?
The Portuguese consume a lot of dry cod , for which there are hundreds of recipes	What is dry cod known as in Portuguese?
The Portuguese art of pastry has its origins in the many medieval Catholic monasteries spread widely across the country	Where does the Portuguese art of pastry have its origins?
Portuguese wines have enjoyed international recognition since the times of the Romans, who associated Portugal with their god Bacchus	Since when have Portuguese wines garnished international recognition?
Portugal has several summer music festivals, such as Festival Sudoeste in Zambujeira do Mar, Festival de Paredes de Coura in Paredes de Coura, Festival Vilar de Mouros near Caminha, Boom Festival in Idanha-a-Nova Municipality, Optimus Alive	What are a couple examples of Summer music festivals held in Portugal?
In the classical music domain, Portugal is represented by names as the pianists Artur Pizarro, Maria João Pires, Sequeira Costa, the violinists Carlos Damas, Gerardo Ribeiro and in the past by the great cellist Guilhermina Suggia	What are some examples of classical pianists from Portugal?
The 20th century saw the arrival of Modernism, and along with it came the most prominent Portuguese painters: Amadeo de Souza-Cardoso, who was heavily influenced by French painters, particularly by the Delaunays	In which century did Portugal see the arrival of Modernism?
Football is the most popular sport in Portugal	What is the most popular sport in Portugal?
"SL Benfica, FC Porto, and Sporting CP are the largest sports clubs by popularity and by number of trophies won, often known as ""os três grandes"" "	What are the three largest sports clubs by popularity in Portugal?
Humanism is a philosophical and ethical stance that emphasizes the value and agency of human beings, individually and collectively, and generally prefers critical thinking and evidence over acceptance of dogma or superstition	What can be seen as of essential importance to a practiced of humanism?
Gellius says that in his day humanitas is commonly used as a synonym for philanthropy – or kindness and benevolence toward one's fellow human being	What was humanism once considered the same as?
During the French Revolution, and soon after, in Germany , humanism began to refer to an ethical philosophy centered on humankind, without attention to the transcendent or supernatural	 At the time of the French Revolution what previous focus of humanism was removed?
"In 1808 Bavarian educational commissioner Friedrich Immanuel Niethammer coined the term Humanismus to describe the new classical curriculum he planned to offer in German secondary schools, and by 1836 the word ""humanism"" had been absorbed into the English language in this sense"	 In what year did the term humanism gain yet another layer of meaning?
But in the mid-18th century, during the French Enlightenment, a more ideological use of the term had come into use	During which period was the philosophy of humanism next updated?
"At about the same time, the word ""humanism"" as a philosophy centred on humankind was also being used in Germany by the so-called Left Hegelians, Arnold Ruge, and Karl Marx, who were critical of the close involvement of the church in the repressive German government"	What was the main difference between humanism and the religions of the time?
Another instance of ancient humanism as an organised system of thought is found in the Gathas of Zarathustra, composed between 1,000 BCE – 600 BCE in Greater Iran	Which ancient text provides an example of the humanist way of thinking?
In China, Yellow Emperor is regarded as the humanistic primogenitor	Who was known as being a founder of humanism thought in China?
In the 6th century BCE, Taoist teacher Lao Tzu espoused a series of naturalistic concepts with some elements of humanistic philosophy	When were humanism beliefs mixed with another philosophy by a Taoist thinker?
6th-century BCE pre-Socratic Greek philosophers Thales of Miletus and Xenophanes of Colophon were the first in the region to attempt to explain the world in terms of human reason rather than myth and tradition, thus can be said to be the first Greek humanists	Who was one of the first Greeks to adopt a humanistic outlook?
Renaissance humanism was an intellectual movement in Europe of the later Middle Ages and the Early Modern period	When did the first wave of Humanism reach Europe?
In the high Renaissance, in fact, there was a hope that more direct knowledge of the wisdom of antiquity, including the writings of the Church fathers, the earliest known Greek texts of the Christian Gospels, and in some cases even the Jewish Kabbalah, would initiate a harmonious new era of universal agreement	 What is one religious text that was thought to eventually lead to a peace between all?
The humanists' close study of Latin literary texts soon enabled them to discern historical differences in the writing styles of different periods	How were humanist able to identify the development of humanist thought?
After 1517, when the new invention of printing made these texts widely available, the Dutch humanist Erasmus, who had studied Greek at the Venetian printing house of Aldus Manutius, began a philological analysis of the Gospels in the spirit of Valla, comparing the Greek originals with their Latin translations with a view to correcting errors and discrepancies in the latter	When are these texts first able to reach a large amount of people?
Terence, an African and a former slave, was well placed to preach the message of universalism, of the essential unity of the human race, that had come down in philosophical form from the Greeks, but needed the pragmatic muscles of Rome in order to become a practical reality	Who was able to spread the idea of equality among all through his words?
Better acquaintance with Greek and Roman technical writings also influenced the development of European science 	 Closer examination of what information allowed for further progress in scientific knowledge?
Just as artist and inventor Leonardo da Vinci – partaking of the zeitgeist though not himself a humanist – advocated study of human anatomy, nature, and weather to enrich Renaissance works of art, so Spanish-born humanist Juan Luis Vives (c	Who felt that the further examination and knowledge of studies in the arena of humanism could further art?
Early humanists saw no conflict between reason and their Christian faith 	Who was able to reconcile their religious beliefs with those of humanism?
Eliot and her circle, who included her companion George Henry Lewes and the abolitionist and social theorist Harriet Martineau, were much influenced by the positivism of Auguste Comte, whom Martineau had translated	What abolitionist was greatly affected by the writings of Comte?
In 1929, Charles Francis Potter founded the First Humanist Society of New York whose advisory board included Julian Huxley, John Dewey, Albert Einstein and Thomas Mann	When was the first public group for Humanist founded?
Psychologists Carl Rogers and Abraham Maslow introduced a positive, humanistic psychology in response to what they viewed as the overly pessimistic view of psychoanalysis in the early 1960s	Who wotked with Carl Rogers on humanistic phycology?
Bragg, the associate editor of The New Humanist, sought to consolidate the input of Leon Milton Birkhead, Charles Francis Potter, and several members of the Western Unitarian Conference	What groups thoughts did he seek to include?
"Renaissance humanism was an activity of cultural and educational reform engaged in by civic and ecclesiastical chancellors, book collectors, educators, and writers, who by the late fifteenth century began to be referred to as umanisti – ""humanists"""	What was the main action of humanism during the Renaissance>
Humanists reacted against this utilitarian approach and the narrow pedantry associated with it	What was it about the utilitatian beliefs that humanism believers did not like?
Contemporary humanism entails a qualified optimism about the capacity of people, but it does not involve believing that human nature is purely good or that all people can live up to the Humanist ideals without help	What is contemporary humanism optimistic about?
Religious humanism is an integration of humanist ethical philosophy with religious rituals and beliefs that centre on human needs, interests, and abilities	What was included in religious humanism that was similiar to other religion?
Early 20th century critics such as Ezra Pound, T	Who was one early naysayer of Humanism?
"In his book, Humanism , Tony Davies calls these critics ""humanist anti-humanists"""	In what year was the book humanism published?
The re-discovery of ancient manuscripts brought a more profound and accurate knowledge of ancient philosophical schools such as Epicureanism, and Neoplatonism, whose Pagan wisdom the humanists, like the Church fathers of old, tended, at least initially, to consider as deriving from divine revelation and thus adaptable to a life of Christian virtue	What allowed for a deeper understanding and personal exploration of older philosophers theories?
"Davies identifies Paine's The Age of Reason as ""the link between the two major narratives of what Jean-François Lyotard calls the narrative of legitimation"": the rationalism of the 18th-century Philosophes and the radical, historically based German 19th-century Biblical criticism of the Hegelians David Friedrich Strauss and Ludwig Feuerbach"	What writing was considered a bridge between two other major writings?
Earth was initially molten due to extreme volcanism and frequent collisions with other bodies	The initial state of earth was what?
Earth was initially molten due to extreme volcanism and frequent collisions with other bodies	Powerful volcanism contributed to cause early earth to be in what state?
The Earth of the early Archean may have had a different tectonic style	During what time period was the Archean era?
In contrast to the Proterozoic, Archean rocks are often heavily metamorphized deep-water sediments, such as graywackes, mudstones, volcanic sediments and banded iron formations	What are Archean rocks composed of, in general?
The geologic record of the Proterozoic is more complete than that for the preceding Archean	During what time period did the Proterozoic era occur?
The Paleozoic spanned from roughly 541 to 252 million years ago and is subdivided into six geologic periods; from oldest to youngest they are the Cambrian, Ordovician, Silurian, Devonian, Carboniferous and Permian	During what period was the Paleozoic era?
Cambrian continents are thought to have resulted from the breakup of a Neoproterozoic supercontinent called Pannotia	What were the continents of the Cambrian area believed to have formerly been a part of?
The Ordovician Period started at a major extinction event called the Cambrian-Ordovician extinction events some time about 485	Which event precipitated the Ordovician period?
The most-commonly accepted theory is that these events were triggered by the onset of an ice age, in the Hirnantian faunal stage that ended the long, stable greenhouse conditions typical of the Ordovician	What type of climate was normal in the Ordovician period?
During the Silurian, Gondwana continued a slow southward drift to high southern latitudes, but there is evidence that the Silurian ice caps were less extensive than those of the late Ordovician glaciation	Compared to the Ordovician glaciation, how big were the ice caps on Gondwana during the Silurian?
The continent Euramerica was created in the early Devonian by the collision of Laurentia and Baltica, which rotated into the natural dry zone along the Tropic of Capricorn	Which continent was formed from the meeting of Laurentia and Baltica?
A global drop in sea level at the end of the Devonian reversed early in the Carboniferous; this created the widespread epicontinental seas and carbonate deposition of the Mississippian	What occurred to the level of the sea when the Devonian period was finished?
The Carboniferous was a time of active mountain building, as the supercontinent Pangea came together	What geologic events took place when Pangea combined during the Carboniferous?
During the Permian all the Earth's major land masses, except portions of East Asia, were collected into a single supercontinent known as Pangaea	What supercontinent prevailed during the Permian era?
The remainder was the world-ocean known as Panthalassa 	"Which ocean name is translated to mean ""all the sea?"""
During the early Jurassic, the supercontinent Pangaea broke up into the northern supercontinent Laurasia and the southern supercontinent Gondwana; the Gulf of Mexico opened in the new rift between North America and what is now Mexico's Yucatan Peninsula	Which supercontinent came apart in the Jurassic period?
During the Cretaceous, the late Paleozoic-early Mesozoic supercontinent of Pangaea completed its breakup into present day continents, although their positions were substantially different at the time	The current continents were formerly known as what continent?
At the peak of the Cretaceous transgression, one-third of Earth's present land area was submerged	During the height of the Cretaceous transgression how much of the earths land mass was under water?
The Cenozoic Era covers the 66 million years since the Cretaceous–Paleogene extinction event up to and including the present day	How many years long was the Cenozoic Era?
Supercontinent Laurasia had not yet separated into three continents	How many continents did Laurasia break into?
At the beginning of the period, Australia and Antarctica remained connected, and warm equatorial currents mixed with colder Antarctic waters, distributing the heat around the world and keeping global temperatures high	Australia was connected to which other continent at the start of the Eocene?
In western North America, mountain building started in the Eocene, and huge lakes formed in the high flat basins among uplifts	during which period did mountains form in the western part of North America?
Antarctica continued to become more isolated and finally developed a permanent ice cap	What permanent structure formed on Antarctica?
Of the modern geologic features, only the land bridge between South America and North America was absent, the subduction zone along the Pacific Ocean margin of South America caused the rise of the Andes and the southward extension of the Meso-American peninsula	The formation of which mountain range was the result of of what zone along the Pacific Ocean side of South America?
South America became linked to North America through the Isthmus of Panama during the Pliocene, bringing a nearly complete end to South America's distinctive marsupial faunas	What is the link between North and South America called?
The last glacial period of the current ice age ended about 10,000 years ago	How long ago did the last glacial period end?
A police force is a constituted body of persons empowered by the state to enforce the law, protect property, and limit civil disorder	What does the state want a police force to do?
The police force is usually a public sector service, meaning they are paid through taxes	How are police usually paid?
"Law enforcement in Ancient China was carried out by ""prefects"" for thousands of years since it developed in both the Chu and Jin kingdoms of the Spring and Autumn period"	Which Chinese kingdoms developed law enforcement?
As one of their first acts after end of the War of the Castilian Succession in 1479, Ferdinand and Isabella established the centrally organized and efficient Holy Brotherhood as a national police force	What war ended in 1479?
In France during the Middle Ages, there were two Great Officers of the Crown of France with police responsibilities: The Marshal of France and the Constable of France	Which two entities in Medieval France had police duties?
The first centrally organised police force was created by the government of King Louis XIV in 1667 to police the city of Paris, then the largest city in Europe	In what year did Paris get a police force?
This office was first held by Gabriel Nicolas de la Reynie, who had 44 commissaires de police under his authority	Who was Paris's first head of police?
"The word ""police"" was borrowed from French into the English language in the 18th century, but for a long time it applied only to French and continental European police forces"	When did the French language adopt the word 'police'?
In 1797, Patrick Colquhoun was able to persuade the West Indies merchants who operated at the Pool of London on the River Thames, to establish a police force at the docks to prevent rampant theft that was causing annual estimated losses of £500,000 worth of cargo	Who convinced the West Indies merchants in London to establish police?
"With the initial investment of £4,200, the new trial force of the Thames River Police began with about 50 men charged with policing 33,000 workers in the river trades, of whom Colquhoun claimed 11,000 were known criminals and ""on the game"	What was the initial size of the Thames River Police force?
Colquhoun's utilitarian approach to the problem – using a cost-benefit argument to obtain support from businesses standing to benefit – allowed him to achieve what Henry and John Fielding failed for their Bow Street detectives	Who started the Bow Street detectives?
Meanwhile, the authorities in Glasgow, Scotland successfully petitioned the government to pass the Glasgow Police Act establishing the City of Glasgow Police in 1800	Which law established Glasgow's police?
Peel, widely regarded as the father of modern policing, was heavily influenced by the social and legal philosophy of Jeremy Bentham, who called for a strong and centralized, but politically neutral, police force for the maintenance of social order, for the protection of people from crime and to act as a visible deterrent to urban crime and disorder	Who was the 'father of modern policing'?
The 1829 Metropolitan Police Act created a modern police force by limiting the purview of the force and its powers, and envisioning it as merely an organ of the judicial system	When was the Metropolitan Police Act passed?
In 1566, the first police investigator of Rio de Janeiro was recruited	When did Rio get its first police investigator?
In Canada, the Royal Newfoundland Constabulary was founded in 1729, making it the first police force in present-day Canada	When did Canada get its first police?
 The Army often provided some policing alongside poorly resourced sheriffs and temporarily organized posses	What were the Old West's local police options?
Michel Foucault claims that the contemporary concept of police as a paid and funded functionary of the state was developed by German and French legal scholars and practitioners in Public administration and Statistics in the 17th and early 18th centuries, most notably with Nicolas Delamare's Traité de la Police , first published in 1705	Which countries' scholars developed the contemporary police concept?
As conceptualized by the Polizeiwissenschaft,according to Foucault the police had an administrative,economic and social duty 	Who wrote about Polizeiwissenschaft?
"Edwin Chadwick's 1829 article, ""Preventive police"" in the London Review, argued that prevention ought to be the primary concern of a police body, which was not the case in practice"	Who wrote 'Preventive Police'?
Despite popular conceptions promoted by movies and television, many US police departments prefer not to maintain officers in non-patrol bureaus and divisions beyond a certain period of time, such as in the detective bureau, and instead maintain policies that limit service in such divisions to a specified period of time, after which officers must transfer out or return to patrol duties	What do some police departments make detectives go back to periodically?
The terms international policing, transnational policing, and/or global policing began to be used from the early 1990s onwards to describe forms of policing that transcended the boundaries of the sovereign nation-state , 	When did Nadelmann write about global policing?
Historical studies reveal that policing agents have undertaken a variety of cross-border police missions for many years 	When did Deflem write about cross-border policing?
A notable exception is James Sheptycki's study of police cooperation in the English Channel region , which provides a systematic content analysis of information exchange files and a description of how these transnational information and intelligence exchanges are transformed into police case-work	Where did Sheptycki study police cooperation?
Studies of this kind outside of Europe are even rarer, so it is difficult to make generalizations, but one small-scale study that compared transnational police information and intelligence sharing practices at specific cross-border locations in North America and Europe confirmed that low visibility of police information and intelligence sharing was a common feature 	Where has cross-border policing been most under-studied?
This form of transnational policing plays an increasingly important role in United Nations peacekeeping and this looks set to grow in the years ahead, especially as the international community seeks to develop the rule of law and reform security institutions in States recovering from conflict With transnational police development-aid the imbalances of power between donors and recipients are stark and there are questions about the applicability and transportability of policing models between jurisdictions 	Where has transnational policing become more important?
2007) Interpol had the lowest scores in its category , coming in tenth with a score of 22% on overall accountability capabilities (p	What is the least-accountable IGO?
They can also be armed with non-lethal weaponry, particularly for riot control	What should non-lethal weapons properly be called?
Modern police forces make extensive use of radio communications equipment, carried both on the person and installed in vehicles, to co-ordinate their work, share information, and get help quickly	How do modern police often communicate?
Unmarked vehicles are used primarily for sting operations or apprehending criminals without alerting them to their presence	When do police often use unmarked cars?
Bicycle patrols are used in some areas because they allow for more open interaction with the public	Why do some cops use bicycles to patrol?
In the United States, August Vollmer introduced other reforms, including education requirements for police officers	Who introduced education requirements for US police?
In Miranda the court created safeguards against self-incriminating statements made after an arrest	What does Miranda provide?
Ohio the court divided seizure into two parts, the investigatory stop and arrest	When was the Terry v. Ohio case?
All police officers in the United Kingdom, whatever their actual rank, are 'constables' in terms of their legal position	What is the legal status of UK police officers?
To ensure that the police would not interfere in the regular competencies of the courts of law, some police acts require that the police may only interfere in such cases where protection from courts cannot be obtained in time, and where, without interference of the police, the realization of the private right would be impeded	Why do some police acts limit when police can interfere without court orders?
The word genocide was not in use before 1944	"The word ""genocide"" was unknown until what year?"
"The word genocide was later included as a descriptive term to the process of indictment, but not yet as a formal legal term According to Lemming, genocide was defined as ""a coordinated strategy to destroy a group of people, a process that could be accomplished through total annihilation as well as strategies that eliminate key elements of the group's basic existence, including language, culture, and economic infrastructure"	"Prior to being a formal legal term, how was the word ""genocide"" used in an indictment scenario?"
The study of genocide has mainly been focused towards the legal aspect of the term	What has been the primary focus in the study of genocide?
After the Holocaust, which had been perpetrated by the Nazi Germany and its allies prior to and during World War II, Lemkin successfully campaigned for the universal acceptance of international laws defining and forbidding genocides	In which war-era country was the Holocaust immortalized? 
The first draft of the Convention included political killings, but these provisions were removed in a political and diplomatic compromise following objections from some countries, including the USSR, a permanent security council member	Which provision was initially included in the first write-up of the Convention and then removed?
"Germany case that in 1992 the majority of legal scholars took the narrow view that ""intent to destroy"" in the CPPCG meant the intended physical-biological destruction of the protected group and that this was still the majority opinion"	Which group was accused by the ECHR of having an overly constricted idea of the meaning of destruction in defining genocide?
In the same judgement the ECHR reviewed the judgements of several international and municipal courts judgements	In its preparations, what was the source of other considerations by the ECHR?
"The phrase ""in whole or in part"" has been subject to much discussion by scholars of international humanitarian law"	Which phrase is especially contentious within international humanitarian law?
"The judges continue in paragraph 12, ""The determination of when the targeted part is substantial enough to meet this requirement may involve a number of considerations"	Several considerations were involved in meeting the requirement to determine what? 
"In paragraph 13 the judges raise the issue of the perpetrators' access to the victims: ""The historical examples of genocide also suggest that the area of the perpetrators’ activity and control, as well as the possible extent of their reach, should be considered"	The issue of what is raised by judges in Paragraph 13? 
The Convention came into force as international law on 12 January 1951 after the minimum 20 countries became parties	On which date did the Genocide Convention become effective?
Writing in 1998 Kurt Jonassohn and Karin Björnson stated that the CPPCG was a legal instrument resulting from a diplomatic compromise	In 1998 it was written that the CPPCG was a legal entity resulting in which type of compromise?
Jonassohn and Björnson postulate that the major reason why no single generally accepted genocide definition has emerged is because academics have adjusted their focus to emphasise different periods and have found it expedient to use slightly different definitions to help them interpret events	What two writers examined the lack of an accepted and singular definition for genocide?
The exclusion of social and political groups as targets of genocide in the CPPCG legal definition has been criticized by some historians and sociologists, for example M	Some historians were critical of what exclusion in the definition of victims of genocide?
"Barbara Harff and Ted Gurr defined genocide as ""the promotion and execution of policies by a state or its agents which result in the deaths of a substantial portion of a group"	Harff and Gurr's definition of genocide included the promotion and execution of what, by a state or its agents?
The ordinary meaning is murder by government of people due to their national, ethnic, racial, or religious group membership	In the writings of Rummel, what is the first and ordinary meaning of genocide?
Highlighting the potential for state and non-state actors to commit genocide in the 21st century, for example, in failed states or as non-state actors acquire weapons of mass destruction, Adrian Gallagher defined genocide as 'When a source of collective power intentionally uses its power base to implement a process of destruction in order to destroy a group , in whole or in substantial part, dependent upon relative group size'	In terms of failed states and non-state actors, the possession of weapons of mass destruction was an issue examined by which writer?
All signatories to the CPPCG are required to prevent and punish acts of genocide, both in peace and wartime, though some barriers make this enforcement difficult	Signatories to the CPPC are required to prevent and punish what?
Because the universal acceptance of international laws which in 1948 defined and forbade genocide with the promulgation of the Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide , those criminals who were prosecuted after the war in international courts for taking part in the Holocaust were found guilty of crimes against humanity and other more specific crimes like murder	In 1948 the worldwide acceptance of international laws that defined and forbade genocide was promulgated by which treaty?
On 12 July 2007, European Court of Human Rights when dismissing the appeal by Nikola Jorgić against his conviction for genocide by a German court (Jorgic v	Which court dismissed Nikola Jorgic's appeal against his conviction for genocide by a German court?
About 30 people have been indicted for participating in genocide or complicity in genocide during the early 1990s in Bosnia	In the 1990s, how many people were indicted for war crimes that were officially defined as genocide?
Slobodan Milošević, as the former President of Serbia and of Yugoslavia, was the most senior political figure to stand trial at the ICTY	Which former president was by far the most senior politician to be accused of genocidal crimes by the ICTY?
The International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda is a court under the auspices of the United Nations for the prosecution of offenses committed in Rwanda during the genocide which occurred there during April 1994, commencing on 6 April	What court was established under the aegis of the United Nations to prosecute genocidal crimes in Rwanda?
There has been much debate over categorizing the situation in Darfur as genocide	What has been widely debated as a possible act of genocide in Sudan?
In March 2005, the Security Council formally referred the situation in Darfur to the Prosecutor of the International Criminal Court, taking into account the Commission report but without mentioning any specific crimes	To whom did the Security Council officially refer the situation in Darfur?
Other authors have focused on the structural conditions leading up to genocide and the psychological and social processes that create an evolution toward genocide	In the build-up to genocide, what have other authors focused on?
Saint-Barthélemy ), officially the Territorial collectivity of Saint-Barthélemy , is an overseas collectivity of France	What country is Saint-Barthélemy a collectivity of?
Saint Barthélemy, a volcanic island fully encircled by shallow reefs, has an area of 25 square kilometres (9	What kind of island is St. Barts?
Saint Barthélemy was for many years a French commune forming part of Guadeloupe, which is an overseas region and department of France	St. Barts was formerly a part of what French commune?
Located approximately 250 kilometres east of Puerto Rico and the nearer Virgin Islands, St	How many Miles East of Puerto Rico is St. Barts?
Grande Saline Bay provides temporary anchorage for small vessels while Colombier Bay, to the northwest, has a 4 fathoms patch near mid entrance	What is the name of the deepest bay at St Barts?
"There are as many as 22 public beaches (most beaches on St Barthélémy are known as ""Anse de"	How many public beaches are there in St. Barts?
Although the climate is essentially arid, the rainfall does average 1000 mm annually, but with considerable variation over the terrain	What type of climate does St. Barts typically have?
Residents of Saint-Barthélemy are French citizens and work at establishments on the island	What are the people of St. Barts called?
Barthélemy and to the neighbouring Saint Martin	What island besides St. Barts was granted COM status by France in 2007?
One senator represents the island in the French Senate	How many senators represent St. Barts in France?
Agricultural production on the island is difficult given the dry and rocky terrain, but the early settlers managed to produce vegetables, cotton, pineapples, salt, bananas and also fishing	What is often difficult on the island?
International investment and the wealth generated by wealthy tourists explain the high standard of living on the island	What besides investment is responsible for the high standard of living on the island?
Barthélemy has about 25 hotels, most of them with 15 rooms or fewer	About how many hotels does St. Barts have?
As the terrain is generally arid, the hills have mostly poor soil and support only cacti and succulent plants	What types of plants are usually found at St. Barts?
Other trees of note include the royal palm, sea grape trees in the form of shrubs on the beaches and as 5 to 7 m trees in the interior areas of the island, aloe or aloe vera , the night blooming cereus, mamillaria nivosa, yellow prickly pear or barbary fig which was planted as barbed wire defences against invading British army in 1773, Mexican cactus, stapelia gigantea, golden trumpet or yellow bell which was originally from South America, bougainvillea and others	What plant was brought to St. Barts from the Mediterranean?
Marine mammals are many, such as the dolphins, porpoises and whales, which are seen here during the migration period from December till May	When is the end of the dolphin migration period in St. Barts?
The marine aquafauna is rich in conch, which has pearly-pink shells	What color are conch shells?
Saint-Barthélemy has a marine nature reserve, known as the Reserve Naturelle that covers 1	What is the sea life reserve named at St. Barts?
When the British invaded the harbour town in 1744, the town’s architectural buildings were destroyed	When did the British invade the harbour town in St. Barts?
"Barts Municipal Museum"" also called the ""Wall House"" in Gustavia, which is located on the far end of La Pointe"	What town is the Museum located in?
Among the notable structures in the town are the three forts built by the Swedes for defense purposes	Who built the three forts on St. Barts?
The island has over 70 restaurants serving many dishes and others are a significant number of gourmet restaurants; many of the finest restaurants are located in the hotels	How many restaurants does the island have?
The Transat AG2R Race, held every alternate year, is an event which originates in Concarneau in Brittany, France, reaching St	How often is the AG2R Race held?
Barthélemy has a small airport known as Gustaf III Airport on the north coast of the island that is served by small regional commercial aircraft and charters	What is the name of the airport in St. Barts?
Tajikistan ), officially the Republic of Tajikistan , is a mountainous, landlocked country in Central Asia with an estimated 8 million people in 2013, and an area of 143,100 km2 	Where is Tajikistan located?
The territory that now constitutes Tajikistan was previously home to several ancient cultures, including the city of Sarazm of the Neolithic and the Bronze Age, and was later home to kingdoms ruled by people of different faiths and cultures, including the Oxus civilization, Andronovo culture, Buddhism, Nestorian Christianity, Zoroastrianism, and Manichaeism	What was the territory of Tajikistan during the Neolithic and the Bronze Age?
"Tajikistan means the ""Land of the Tajiks"""	What does Tajikistan mean?
The earliest recorded history of the region dates back to about 500 BCE when much, if not all, of modern Tajikistan was part of the Achaemenid Empire	What was the first recorded history of this region?
The Kushan Empire, a collection of Yuezhi tribes, took control of the region in the first century CE and ruled until the 4th century CE during which time Buddhism, Nestorian Christianity, Zoroastrianism, and Manichaeism were all practiced in the region	What religions were practiced in the region from first centry CE to 4th centry CE?
It was temporarily under the control of the Tibetan empire and Chinese from 650–680 and then under the control of the Umayyads in 710	When was the region under Tibetan empire and the CHinese?
Russian Imperialism led to the Russian Empire's conquest of Central Asia during the late 19th century's Imperial Era	When did the Russian Empire take over Central Asia?
During the late 19th Century the Jadidists established themselves as an Islamic social movement throughout the region	What did the Jadidists establish themselves as in the late 19th century?
After the Russian Revolution of 1917 guerrillas throughout Central Asia, known as basmachi, waged a war against Bolshevik armies in a futile attempt to maintain independence	Who went to war against Bolshevick armies?
In 1924, the Tajik Autonomous Soviet Socialist Republic was created as a part of Uzbekistan, but in 1929 the Tajik Soviet Socialist Republic was made a separate constituent republic, however the predominantly ethnic Tajik cities of Samarkand and Bukhara remained in the Uzbek SSR	In 1924, what was created as part of Uzbekistan?
Two rounds of Soviet purges directed by Moscow resulted in the expulsion of nearly 10,000 people, from all levels of the Communist Party of Tajikistan	Who directed the purges of Soviets?
Tajiks began to be conscripted into the Soviet Army in 1939 and during World War II around 260,000 Tajik citizens fought against Germany, Finland and Japan	When did Tajiks start being part of the Soviet Army?
The nation almost immediately fell into civil war that involved various factions fighting one another; these factions were often distinguished by clan loyalties	How were the different factions distinguished from eachother?
Russian border troops were stationed along the Tajik–Afghan border until summer 2005	Who was stationed along the boarder?
In 2010, there were concerns among Tajik officials that Islamic militarism in the east of the country was on the rise following the escape of 25 militants from a Tajik prison in August, an ambush that killed 28 Tajik soldiers in the Rasht Valley in September, and another ambush in the valley in October that killed 30 soldiers, followed by fighting outside Gharm that left 3 militants dead	Why was there concerns in 2010?
3	Fighting outside Guam left how many militants dead?
Tajikistan is officially a republic, and holds elections for the presidency and parliament, operating under a presidential system	What type of government does Tajikistan have?
The parliamentary elections of 2005 aroused many accusations from opposition parties and international observers that President Emomalii Rahmon corruptly manipulates the election process and unemployment	Why were parties upset in the 2005 election?
Freedom of the press is ostensibly officially guaranteed by the government, but independent press outlets remain restricted, as does a substantial amount of web content	Even though Tajikistan has freedom of the press, what is the problem with it?
Tajikistan is landlocked, and is the smallest nation in Central Asia by area	What is the smalled nation in the Central Asia area?
The primary sources of income in Tajikistan are aluminium production, cotton growing and remittances from migrant workers	What is the primary source of income in Tajikistan?
Tajikistan's rivers, such as the Vakhsh and the Panj, have great hydropower potential, and the government has focused on attracting investment for projects for internal use and electricity exports	What is something that the rivers in Tajikistan are good for?
Tajikistan has achieved transition from a planned to a market economy without substantial and protracted recourse to aid , and by purely market-based means, simply by exporting its main commodity of comparative advantage — cheap labor	How did Tajikistan change their economy?
Drug trafficking is the major illegal source of income in Tajikistan as it is an important transit country for Afghan narcotics bound for Russian and, to a lesser extent, Western European markets; some opium poppy is also raised locally for the domestic market	What is raised locally for the domestic market?
In recent years Tajikistan has pursued agreements with Iran and Pakistan to gain port access in those countries via Afghanistan	What countries had Tajikistan been working with to use ports?
In 2009 Tajikistan had 26 airports, 18 of which had paved runways, of which two had runways longer than 3,000 meters	How many airports does Tajikistan have?
Tajikistan has a population of 7,349,145 (July 2009 est	What is Tajikistans population as of July 2009?
The Pamiri people of Gorno-Badakhshan Autonomous Province in the southeast, bordering Afghanistan and China, though considered part of the Tajik ethnicity, nevertheless are distinct linguistically and culturally from most Tajiks	What people live in the southeast area of the country?
Sunni Islam of the Hanafi school has been officially recognized by the government since 2009	What school has been recognized by the government?
] that minority religious groups undermine national unity	What type of religions concerns are there?
Registration with the SCRA requires a charter, a list of 10 or more members, and evidence of local government approval prayer site location	What does the SCRA require?
Despite repeated efforts by the Tajik government to improve and expand health care, the system remains extremely underdeveloped and poor, with severe shortages of medical supplies	What is wrong with the health care system in Tajikistan?
Public education in Tajikistan consists of 11 years of primary and secondary education but the government has plans to implement a 12-year system in 2016	How many years of school are there in the Tajikistan school system?
Tajikistan consists of 4 administrative divisions	Which country consists of five administrative divisions?
Nearly 47% of Tajikistan's GDP comes from immigrant remittances 	Nearly 87% of Tajikistan's GDP comes from what?
The University of Notre Dame du Lac is a Catholic research university located adjacent to South Bend, Indiana, in the United States	The school known as Notre Dame is known by a more lengthy name, what is it?
Notre Dame rose to national prominence in the early 1900s for its Fighting Irish football team, especially under the guidance of the legendary coach Knute Rockne	What caused Notre Dame to become notable in the early 20th century?
Besides its prominence in sports, Notre Dame is also a large, four-year, highly residential research University, and is consistently ranked among the top twenty universities in the United States and as a major global university	Where among US universities does Notre Dame rank?
In 1842, the Bishop of Vincennes, Célestine Guynemer de la Hailandière, offered land to Father Edward Sorin of the Congregation of the Holy Cross, on the condition that he build a college in two years	In what year was Father Edward Sorin given two years to create a college?
The first degrees from the college were awarded in 1849	In what year did the initial degrees get handed out at Notre Dame?
This Main Building, and the library collection, was entirely destroyed by a fire in April 1879, and the school closed immediately and students were sent home	In what year was the Main Building at Notre Dame razed in a fire?
In 1919 Father James Burns became president of Notre Dame, and in three years he produced an academic revolution that brought the school up to national standards by adopting the elective system and moving away from the university's traditional scholastic and classical emphasis	In 1919 a new president of Notre Dame was named, who was it?
Knute Rockne became head coach in 1918	The Notre Dame football team got a new head coach in 1918, who was it?
Catholics rallied up around the team and listen to the games on the radio, especially when it knocked off the schools that symbolized the Protestant establishment in America — Harvard, Yale, Princeton, and Army	Catholic people identified with Notre Dame, what religious group did people feel Yale represented?
Holy Cross Father John Francis O'Hara was elected vice-president in 1933 and president of Notre Dame in 1934	Which person became vice-president of Notre Dame in 1933?
Cavanaugh's legacy at Notre Dame in the post-war years was devoted to raising academic standards and reshaping the university administration to suit it to an enlarged educational mission and an expanded student body and stressing advanced studies and research at a time when Notre Dame quadrupled in student census, undergraduate enrollment increased by more than half, and graduate student enrollment grew fivefold	Around the time that Rev. Cavanaugh became president of Notre Dame by how much did the undergrad student body of Notre Dame increase?
, served as president for 35 years of dramatic transformations	What was the lifespan of Theodore Hesburgh?
Hesburgh is also credited with transforming the face of Notre Dame by making it a coeducational institution	What type of educational institute is Hesburgh given credit for creating at Notre Dame?
, , there was a rapid growth in the school's reputation, faculty, and resources	During what years was Edward Malloy president of Notre Dame?
Since 2005, Notre Dame has been led by John I	When did John Jenkins become the president of Notre Dame?
The Old College building has become one of two seminaries on campus run by the Congregation of Holy Cross	Which congregation is in charge of the Old College at Notre Dame?
Zahm, but in 1950 it was converted to a student union building and named LaFortune Center, after Joseph LaFortune, an oil executive from Tulsa, Oklahoma	In what year did the student union building at Notre Dame get renamed to LaFortune Center?
Over the years 29 residence halls have been built to accommodate students and each has been constructed with its own chapel	How many halls are at Notre Dame that house students?
The University of Notre Dame has made being a sustainability leader an integral part of its mission, creating the Office of Sustainability in 2008 to achieve a number of goals in the areas of power generation, design and construction, waste reduction, procurement, food services, transportation, and water	In what year did Notre Dame create the Office of Sustainability?
The university has had a presence in London, England, since 1968	In what year did Notre Dame first have a facility in England?
The College of Arts and Letters was established as the university's first college in 1842 with the first degrees given in 1849	What was Notre Dame's first college?
The College of Science was established at the university in 1865 by president Father Patrick Dillon	Which president at Notre Dame created the College of Science?
The School of Architecture was established in 1899, although degrees in architecture were first awarded by the university in 1898	In 1899 Notre Dame formed which college?
The College of Engineering was established in 1920, however, early courses in civil and mechanical engineering were a part of the College of Science since the 1870s	In what year was the College of Engineering at Notre Dame formed?
All of Notre Dame's undergraduate students are a part of one of the five undergraduate colleges at the school or are in the First Year of Studies program	How many colleges for undergraduates are at Notre Dame?
The university first offered graduate degrees, in the form of a Master of Arts , in the 1854–1855 academic year	In what year was a Master of Arts course first offered at Notre Dame?
It was founded in 1986 through the donations of Joan B	In what year was the Joan B. Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies founded?
The main building is the 14-story Theodore M	How many stories tall is the main library at Notre Dame?
A theology library was also opened in fall of 2015	In what year did the opening of a theology library at Notre Dame occur?
Notre Dame is known for its competitive admissions, with the incoming class enrolling in fall 2015 admitting 3,577 from a pool of 18,156 (19	How many incoming students did Notre Dame admit in fall 2015?
"In 2015-2016, Notre Dame ranked 18th overall among ""national universities"" in the United States in U"	Where did U.S. News & World Report rank Notre Dame in its 2015-2016 university rankings?
was Director of the Science Museum and the Library and Professor of Chemistry and Physics until 1874	What professorship did Father Josh Carrier hold at Notre Dame?
In 1882, Albert Zahm built an early wind tunnel used to compare lift to drag of aeronautical models	What did the brother of John Zahm construct at Notre Dame?
The Lobund Institute grew out of pioneering research in germ-free-life which began in 1928	Work on a germ-free-life ended up in the creation of which Notre Dame institute?
The Review of Politics was founded in 1939 by Gurian, modeled after German Catholic journals	Gurian created what in 1939 at Notre Dame?
The rise of Hitler and other dictators in the 1930s forced numerous Catholic intellectuals to flee Europe; president John O'Hara brought many to Notre Dame	What caused many intellectual Catholics to leave europe in the 1930s?
"The university president, John Jenkins, described his hope that Notre Dame would become ""one of the pre–eminent research institutions in the world"" in his inaugural address"	Who was the president of Notre Dame in 2012?
In 2014 the Notre Dame student body consisted of 12,179 students, with 8,448 undergraduates, 2,138 graduate and professional and 1,593 professional (Law, M	How many undergrads were attending Notre Dame in 2014?
About 80% of undergraduates and 20% of graduate students live on campus	What percentage of undergrads live on the Notre Dame campus?
The university is affiliated with the Congregation of Holy Cross 	What is Congregation of Holy Cross in Latin?
Atop the Main Building's gold dome is a golden statue of the Virgin Mary	What sits on top of the Main Building at Notre Dame?
The university is the major seat of the Congregation of Holy Cross 	Where is the headquarters of the Congregation of the Holy Cross?
The nine student-run outlets include three newspapers, both a radio and television station, and several magazines and journals	How many student news papers are found at Notre Dame?
The television station, NDtv, grew from one show in 2002 to a full 24-hour channel with original programming by September 2006	Which television station finds its home at Notre Dame?
The first phase of Eddy Street Commons, a $215 million development located adjacent to the University of Notre Dame campus and funded by the university, broke ground on June 3, 2008	How much is Eddy Street Commons at Notre Dame expected to cost?
They compete as a member of the National Collegiate Athletic Association Division I, primarily competing in the Atlantic Coast Conference for all sports since the 2013–14 school year	What does the acronym NCAA stand for?
The Irish left the Big East for the ACC during a prolonged period of instability in the Big East; while they maintain their football independence, they have committed to play five games per season against ACC opponents	To what conference did the Fighting Irish go after the Big East?
On July 1, 2014, the University of Notre Dame and Under Armour reached an agreement in which Under Armour will provide uniforms, apparel,equipment, and monetary compensation to Notre Dame for 10 years	Who currently provides uniforms to Notre Dame sport teams?
The Notre Dame football team has a long history, first beginning when the Michigan Wolverines football team brought football to Notre Dame in 1887 and played against a group of students	Which team did Notre Dame's football team find inspiration from?
George Gipp was the school's legendary football player during 1916–20	What notable football player played at Notre Dame from 1916 to 1920?
Zahm House's two-story banner)	What is displayed at Zahm House for football home games at Notre Dame?
The men's basketball team has over 1,600 wins, one of only 12 schools who have reached that mark, and have appeared in 28 NCAA tournaments	How many wins does the Notre Dame men's basketball team have?
Shea, a 1904 graduate, wrote the music, and his brother, John F	In what year did Michael J. Shea graduate from Notre Dame?
"George Gipp was played by Ronald Reagan, whose nickname ""The Gipper"" was derived from this role"	Ronald Reagan had a nickname, what was it?
Alumni working in political fields include state governors, members of the United States Congress, and former United States Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice	Which Secretary of State attended Notre Dame?
Anthropology is the study of humans and their societies in the past and present	What is anthropology a study of?
Sporadic use of the term for some of the subject matter occurred subsequently, such as the use by Étienne Serres in 1838 to describe the natural history, or paleontology, of man, based on comparative anatomy, and the creation of a chair in anthropology and ethnography in 1850 at the National Museum of Natural History by Jean Louis Armand de Quatrefages de Bréau	Who used the term anthropology to describe the natural history of man?
Anthropology and many other current fields are the intellectual results of the comparative methods developed in the earlier 19th century	What is anthropology the intellectual results of?
There was an immediate rush to bring it into the social sciences	What was there a rush to do with the theory of evolution?
Broca, being what today would be called a neurosurgeon, had taken an interest in the pathology of speech	If Broca were alive today, what would his profession be?
"Waitz defined anthropology as ""the science of the nature of man"""	How did Waitz define anthropology?
Waitz was influential among the British ethnologists	Who was Waitz influential among?
Similar organizations in other countries followed: The American Anthropological Association in 1902, the Anthropological Society of Madrid , the Anthropological Society of Vienna , the Italian Society of Anthropology and Ethnology , and many others subsequently	When was the American Anthropological Association founded?
During the last three decades of the 19th century a proliferation of anthropological societies and associations occurred, most independent, most publishing their own journals, and all international in membership and association	What proliferated in the last three decades of the 19th century?
This meagre statistic expanded in the 20th century to comprise anthropology departments in the majority of the world's higher educational institutions, many thousands in number	What did the 20th century see the expansion of anthropology departments into?
Since the work of Franz Boas and Bronisław Malinowski in the late 19th and early 20th centuries, social anthropology in Great Britain and cultural anthropology in the US have been distinguished from other social sciences by its emphasis on cross-cultural comparisons, long-term in-depth examination of context, and the importance it places on participant-observation or experiential immersion in the area of research	When did Bronislaw Malinoswki and Franz Boas do their relevant work?
Anthropology is a global discipline where humanities, social, and natural sciences are forced to confront one another	What type of discipline is anthropology?
Sociocultural anthropology has been heavily influenced by structuralist and postmodern theories, as well as a shift toward the analysis of modern societies	What has sociocultural anthropology been heavily influenced by?
Sociocultural anthropology draws together the principle axes of cultural anthropology and social anthropology	What draws together the axes of cultural and social anthropology?
Inquiry in sociocultural anthropology is guided in part by cultural relativism, the attempt to understand other societies in terms of their own cultural symbols and values	What is the attempt to understand other societies on their own terms?
Sociocultural anthropology also covers economic and political organization, law and conflict resolution, patterns of consumption and exchange, material culture, technology, infrastructure, gender relations, ethnicity, childrearing and socialization, religion, myth, symbols, values, etiquette, worldview, sports, music, nutrition, recreation, games, food, festivals, and language 	Why type of anthropology is the study of social organization a central focus of?
Archaeology is the study of the human past through its material remains	What field studies human's past through material remains?
Linguistic anthropology seeks to understand the processes of human communications, verbal and non-verbal, variation in language across time and space, the social uses of language, and the relationship between language and culture	What subdivision of anthropology seeks to understand the process of human communications?
One of the central problems in the anthropology of art concerns the universality of 'art' as a cultural phenomenon	What is a cultural phenomenon? 
Media anthropology emphasizes ethnographic studies as a means of understanding producers, audiences, and other cultural and social aspects of mass media	What type of anthropology tries to understand the social aspects of mass media?
Visual anthropology is concerned, in part, with the study and production of ethnographic photography, film and, since the mid-1990s, new media	What type of anthropology concerns itself with the study of photography and film?
Economic anthropology attempts to explain human economic behavior in its widest historic, geographic and cultural scope	Which branch of anthropology attempts to explain human economic behavior?
Political economy in anthropology is the application of the theories and methods of Historical Materialism to the traditional concerns of anthropology, including, but not limited to, non-capitalist societies	What does political economy in anthropology apply Historical Materialism to?
Applied Anthropology refers to the application of the method and theory of anthropology to the analysis and solution of practical problems	What type of anthropology is used to analyse and find solutions to real world problems?
Anthropology of development tends to view development from a critical perspective	What perspective does development anthropology view development from?
Kinship can refer both to the study of the patterns of social relationships in one or more human cultures, or it can refer to the patterns of social relationships themselves	What can refer to the study of patterns in human cultures?
Feminist anthropology is a four field approach to anthropology that seeks to reduce male bias in research findings, anthropological hiring practices, and the scholarly production of knowledge	What type of anthropology focuses on a political agenda rather than on contributing to science?
Nutritional anthropology is a synthetic concept that deals with the interplay between economic systems, nutritional status and food security, and how changes in the former affect the latter	What division of anthropology concerns itself with food security?
Psychological anthropology is an interdisciplinary subfield of anthropology that studies the interaction of cultural and mental processes	What subfield of anthropology studies mental processes? 
Cognitive anthropology seeks to explain patterns of shared knowledge, cultural innovation, and transmission over time and space using the methods and theories of the cognitive sciences often through close collaboration with historians, ethnographers, archaeologists, linguists, musicologists and other specialists engaged in the description and interpretation of cultural forms	What type of anthology deals with patterns of shared knowledge?
Political anthropology concerns the structure of political systems, looked at from the basis of the structure of societies	What type of anthropology is interested in the structure of political systems?
Cyborg anthropology originated as a sub-focus group within the American Anthropological Association's annual meeting in 1993	What type of anthropology originated as a sub-focus group?
Environmental anthropology is a sub-specialty within the field of anthropology that takes an active role in examining the relationships between humans and their environment across space and time	Which sub-specialty of anthropology takes an active role in looking at how humans interact with their environment?
Ethnohistory is the study of ethnographic cultures and indigenous customs by examining historical records	How does an someone interested in ethnohistory learn more about cultures and customs?
Urban anthropology is concerned with issues of urbanization, poverty, and neoliberalism	What division of anthropology is concerned with poverty?
Anthrozoology is the study of interaction between living things	What is Anthrozoology also known as?
Evolutionary anthropology is the interdisciplinary study of the evolution of human physiology and human behaviour and the relation between hominins and non-hominin primates	What branch of anthropology studies human behavior and the relation between primates?
Ethical commitments in anthropology include noticing and documenting genocide, infanticide, racism, mutilation , and torture	What type of anthropology commitment is noticing and documenting genocide?
"But by the 1940s, many of Boas' anthropologist contemporaries were active in the allied war effort against the ""Axis"" "	What were Boas' peers doing in the 1940s?
Professional anthropological bodies often object to the use of anthropology for the benefit of the state	What do groups of anthropologists object to the use of anthropology for benefit of?
Anthropologists, along with other social scientists, are working with the US military as part of the US Army's strategy in Afghanistan	Who are anthropologists working with along with other social scientists? 
Biological anthropologists are interested in both human variation and in the possibility of human universals 	What type of anthropologist is interested in human variation?
Along with dividing up their project by theoretical emphasis, anthropologists typically divide the world up into relevant time periods and geographic regions	How do anthropologists typically like to divide up the world?
"Some authors argue that anthropology originated and developed as the study of ""other cultures"", both in terms of time and space "	What do some authors state anthropology developed as the study of?
Since the 1980s it has become common for social and cultural anthropologists to set ethnographic research in the North Atlantic region, frequently examining the connections between locations rather than limiting research to a single locale	What has become common for social anthropologists to do since the 1980s?
Montana is ranked 4th in size, but 44th in population and 48th in population density of the 50 United States	What is the states rank in size?
The state tree, the ponderosa pine, was selected by Montana schoolchildren as the preferred state tree by an overwhelming majority in a referendum held in 1908	What year was the state tree selected?
Howard stopped in Butte in September 1910	When was the state song composed?
"Montana's motto, Oro y Plata, Spanish for ""Gold and Silver"", recognizing the significant role of mining, was first adopted in 1865, when Montana was still a territory"	What is Montana's motto? 
Based on 2013 census numbers, they collectively contain 35 percent of Montana's population	"How much of the states population does the ""Big 7"" have?"
"Montana has 56 counties with the United States Census Bureau stating Montana's contains 364 ""places"", broken down into 129 incorporated places and 235 census-designated places"	How many counties does Montana have?
"The name Montana comes from the Spanish word Montaña, meaning ""mountain"", or more broadly, ""mountainous country"""	Where does the state's name mean?
With a total area of 147,040 square miles , Montana is slightly larger than Japan	What is the total area of Montana?
Most of Montana's 100 or more named mountain ranges are concentrated in the western half of the state, most of which is geologically and geographically part of the Northern Rocky Mountains	Where are most of the states mountain ranges?
The northern section of the Divide, where the mountains give way rapidly to prairie, is part of the Rocky Mountain Front	Which direction do the rivers flow near the Triple Divide Peak?
The Beartooth Plateau is the largest continuous land mass over 10,000 feet high in the continental United States	How high is the Beartooth Plateau?
Democrats currently hold one of the state's U	How many seats do Democrats hold in the state US Senate's seats?
In presidential elections, Montana was long classified as a swing state, though the state has voted for the Republican candidate in all but two elections from 1952 to the present	In elections, what is Montana considered?
Bozeman Yellowstone International Airport is the busiest airport in the state of Montana, surpassing Billings Logan International Airport in the spring of 2013	What is the name of the busiest airport in Montana?
Today, the BNSF Railway is the state's largest railroad, its main transcontinental route incorporating the former Great Northern main line across the state	What is the states largest railway?
Montana is home to the Rocky Mountain Elk Foundation and has a historic big game hunting tradition	What is the name of the big game hunting foundation in Montana?
Montana has been a destination for its world-class trout fisheries since the 1930s	Since when has Montana been a destination for trout fisheries?
The Montana Territory was formed on April 26, 1864, when the U	When was the Montana Territory formed?
"Montana contains thousands of named rivers and creeks, 450 miles of which are known for ""blue-ribbon"" trout fishing"	How many miles of rivers are known for high class trout?
East of the divide the Missouri River, which is formed by the confluence of the Jefferson, Madison and Gallatin rivers near Three Forks, flows due north through the west-central part of the state to Great Falls	What rivers form the Missouri River?
It flows north through Yellowstone National Park, enters Montana near Gardiner, and passes through the Paradise Valley to Livingston	Which direction does the Yellowstone River flow through the national park?
There are at least 3,223 named lakes and reservoirs in Montana, including Flathead Lake, the largest natural freshwater lake in the western United States	How many named lakes are there in Montana?
Forests cover approximately 25 percent of the state	About how much area do forests cover the state?
Montana is home to a diverse array of fauna that includes 14 amphibian, 90 fish, 117 mammal, 20 reptile and 427 bird species	How many different types of fish are diverse to Montana?
Average annual precipitation is 15 inches , but great variations are seen	What is the annual precipitation?
Montana's personal income tax contains 7 brackets, with rates ranging from 1 percent to 6	How many tax brackets does Montana have?
Approximately 66,000 people of Native American heritage live in Montana	About how many Native Americans live in Montana?
While the largest European-American population in Montana overall is German, pockets of significant Scandinavian ancestry are prevalent in some of the farming-dominated northern and eastern prairie regions, parallel to nearby regions of North Dakota and Minnesota	What is the largest European-American race in Montana?
Montana has three counties in which Native Americans are a majority: Big Horn, Glacier, and Roosevelt	What three counties are Native Americans a majority?
Many Montana cities set heat records during July 2007, the hottest month ever recorded in Montana	In what year did many cities in Montana set heat records?
In 1855, Washington Territorial Governor Isaac Stevens negotiated the Hellgate treaty between the United States Government and the Salish, Pend d'Oreille, and the Kootenai people of western Montana, which established boundaries for the tribal nations	What year was the Hellgate treaty formed?
Army post established in Montana was Camp Cooke on the Missouri River in 1866 to protect steamboat traffic going to Fort Benton, Montana	What was the name of the first US Army post?
English is the official language in the state of Montana, as it is in many U	What is the official language of Montana?
The United States Census Bureau estimates that the population of Montana was 1,032,949 on July 1, 2015, a 4	What was the population of the state in 2015?
In 1940, Jeannette Rankin had once again been elected to Congress, and in 1941, as she did in 1917, she voted against the United States' declaration of war	What year was Jeannette Rankin vote against war the first time?
Some estimates say there were over 13 million bison in Montana in 1870	About how many bison were in Montana in 1870?
Tracks of the Northern Pacific Railroad reached Montana from the west in 1881 and from the east in 1882	When did the Northern Pacific Railroad reach Montana from the west?
Under Territorial Governor Thomas Meagher, Montanans held a constitutional convention in 1866 in a failed bid for statehood	When was the first constitutional convention held in Montana?
"The Homestead Act of 1862 provided free land to settlers who could claim and ""prove-up"" 160 acres (0"	What year did the Homestead Act provide land to settlers?
The Desert Land Act of 1877 was passed to allow settlement of arid lands in the west and allotted 640 acres (2	When was the Desert Land Act passed?
In 1902, the Reclamation Act was passed, allowing irrigation projects to be built in Montana's eastern river valleys	In what year was the Reclamation Act passed?
In June 1917, the U	When did Congress pass the Espionage Act?
Another 40,000-plus Montanans entered the armed forces in the first year following the declaration of war, and over 57,000 joined up before the war ended	How many Montanans entered the miltary in the first year of the war?
Punjab ), also spelled Panjab, is the most populous of the four provinces of Pakistan	What does Punjab mean?
Punjab's geography mostly consists of the alluvial plain of the Indus River and its four major tributaries in Pakistan, the Jhelum, Chenab, Ravi, and Sutlej rivers	What plain is Punjab in?
Punjab is Pakistan's second largest province in terms of land area at 205,344 km2 , after Balochistan, and is located at the north western edge of the geologic Indian plate in South Asia	How large is Punjab compared to the other three provinces?
The capital and largest city is Lahore which was the historical capital of the wider Punjab region	Which province in Pakistan borders the other 3 provinces?
There are 48 departments in Punjab government	How many departments does the Punjab administration have?
Punjab during Mahabharata times was known as Panchanada	What was Punjab formerly known as?
Due to its location, the Punjab region came under constant attacks and influence from the west and witnessed centuries of foreign invasions by the Greeks, Kushans, Scythians, Turks, and Afghans	Who has invaded Punjab?
Having conquered Drangiana, Arachosia, Gedrosia and Seistan in ten days, Alexander crossed the Hindu Kush and was thus fully informed of the magnificence of the country and its riches in gold, gems and pearls	Where did Alexander the Great conquer in 10 days?
The Punjabis followed a diverse plethora of faiths, mainly comprising Hinduism , when the Muslim Umayyad army led by Muhammad bin Qasim conquered Sindh and Southern Punjab in 712, by defeating Raja Dahir	What religion did Punjab become?
In 1758, the general of the Hindu Maratha Empire, Raghunath Rao conquered Lahore and Attock	Who was Raghunath Rao?
In the mid-fifteenth century, the religion of Sikhism was born	When did Sikhism begin?
Maharaja Ranjit Singh's death in the summer of 1839 brought political chaos and the subsequent battles of succession and the bloody infighting between the factions at court weakened the state	When did Ranjit Singh die?
Punjab witnessed major battles between the armies of India and Pakistan in the wars of 1965 and 1971	When did India and Pakistan fight in Punjab?
The onset of the southwest monsoon is anticipated to reach Punjab by May, but since the early 1970s the weather pattern has been irregular	When do monsoons traditionally happen in Punjab?
The major and native language spoken in the Punjab is Punjabi and Punjabis comprise the largest ethnic group in country	What is Punjab's major language?
The Chief Minister of Punjab is elected by the Provincial Assembly of the Punjab to serve as the head of the provincial government in Punjab, Pakistan	Who elects the Chief Minister?
The province's economy has quadrupled since 1972	How much has Punjab's economy grown since 1972?
Despite the lack of a coastline, Punjab is the most industrialised province of Pakistan; its manufacturing industries produce textiles, sports goods, heavy machinery, electrical appliances, surgical instruments, vehicles, auto parts, metals, sugar mill plants, aircraft, cement, agricultural machinery, bicycles and rickshaws, floor coverings, and processed foods	What geographic feature does Punjab not have?
Despite its tropical wet and dry climate, extensive irrigation makes it a rich agricultural region	What kind of climate does Punjab have?
As of June 2012, Pakistan's electricity problems were so severe that violent riots were taking place across Punjab	What kind of problem caused riots in June 2012?
Calligraphic inscriptions from the Quran decorate mosques and mausoleums in Punjab	What kind of inscriptions decorate Punjab's burial places?
The fairs held at the shrines of Sufi saints are called urs	What are urs?
The national horse and cattle show at Lahore is the biggest festival where sports, exhibitions, and livestock competitions are held	What is Punjab's biggest festival?
The Anarkali Market and Jahangir's Tomb are prominent in the city of Lahore as is the Lahore Museum, while the ancient city of Taxila in the northwest was once a major centre of Buddhist and Hindu influence	What famous tomb is in Lahore?
Among the Punjabi poets, the names of Sultan Bahu, Bulleh Shah, Mian Muhammad Baksh, and Waris Shah and folk singers like Inayat Hussain Bhatti and Tufail Niazi, Alam Lohar, Sain Marna, Mansoor Malangi, Allah Ditta Lona wala, Talib Hussain Dard, Attaullah Khan Essa Khailwi, Gamoo Tahliwala, Mamzoo Gha-lla, Akbar Jat, Arif Lohar, Ahmad Nawaz Cheena and Hamid Ali Bela are well-known	Who are some well-known Punjab poets?
For the popular taste however, light music, particularly Ghazals and folk songs, which have an appeal of their own, the names of Mehdi Hassan, Ghulam Ali, Nur Jehan, Malika Pukhraj, Farida Khanum, Roshen Ara Begum, and Nusrat Fateh Ali Khan are well-known	What kind of music does Malika Pukhraj perform?
Richmond is located at the fall line of the James River, 44 miles west of Williamsburg, 66 miles east of Charlottesville, and 98 miles south of Washington, D	How many miles east of Richmond is Williamsburg?
The site of Richmond had been an important village of the Powhatan Confederacy, and was briefly settled by English colonists from Jamestown in 1609, and in 1610–1611	What was the nationality of the people who settled Richmond in 1609?
Richmond's economy is primarily driven by law, finance, and government, with federal, state, and local governmental agencies, as well as notable legal and banking firms, located in the downtown area	Along with law and finance, what is a major component of Richmond's economy?
John's Church in Richmond, crucial for deciding Virginia's participation in the First Continental Congress and setting the course for revolution and independence	What did Patrick Henry's famous speech persuade Virginians to send delegates to?
A permanent home for the new government, the Virginia State Capitol building, was designed by Thomas Jefferson with the assistance of Charles-Louis Clérisseau, and was completed in 1788	Who aided Jefferson in designing the Virginia State Capitol?
To facilitate the transfer of cargo from the flat-bottomed bateaux above the fall line to the ocean-faring ships below, George Washington helped design the James River and Kanawha Canal in the 18th century to bypass Richmond's rapids, with the intent of providing a water route across the Appalachians to the Kanawha River	What man-made body of water was designed in part by George Washington?
On 17 April 1861, five days after the Confederate attack on Fort Sumter, the legislature voted to secede from the United States and joined the Confederacy	On what date was Virginia's secession from the Union?
In addition to Virginia and Confederate government offices and hospitals, a railroad hub, and one of the South's largest slave markets, Richmond had the largest factory in the Confederacy, the Tredegar Iron Works, which turned out artillery and other munitions, including the 723 tons of armor plating that covered the CSS Virginia, the world's first ironclad used in war, as well as much of the Confederates' heavy ordnance machinery	What was the name of the biggest factory in the Confederate States of America?
Gordon's desperate attack on Fort Stedman east of Petersburg failed	Where was Petersburg located in relation to Ford Stedman?
Davis and his cabinet left the city by train that night, as government officials burned documents and departing Confederate troops burned tobacco and other warehouses to deny their contents to the victors	What was contained in warehouses that were notably burned by Confederates when evacuating Richmond?
President Abraham Lincoln visited General Grant at Petersburg on April 3, and took a launch to Richmond the next day, while Jefferson Davis attempted to organize his Confederate government at Danville	What was the date before the day Lincoln entered Richmond?
Canal traffic peaked in the 1860s and slowly gave way to railroads, allowing Richmond to become a major railroad crossroads, eventually including the site of the world's first triple railroad crossing	What mode of transportation took over from the canals?
By the beginning of the 20th century, the city's population had reached 85,050 in 5 square miles , making it the most densely populated city in the Southern United States	When the 1900s began, how many people lived in Richmond?
"Between 1963 and 1965, there was a ""downtown boom"" that led to the construction of more than 700 buildings in the city"	When did the so-called downtown boom in Richmond end?
According to the United States Census Bureau, the city has a total area of 62 square miles , of which 60 square miles is land and 2	How many square kilometers is Richmond?
Nearby neighborhoods include Shockoe Bottom, the historically significant and low-lying area between Shockoe Hill and Church Hill, and Monroe Ward, which contains the Jefferson Hotel	What neighborhood is located in between Church and Shockoe Hill?
North of Broad Street, the Carver and Newtowne West neighborhoods are demographically similar to neighboring Jackson Ward, with Carver experiencing some gentrification due to its proximity to VCU	The neighborhood of Newtowne West is north of what street?
The portion of the city south of the James River is known as the Southside	What name is given to the part of Richmond located to the south of the James?
Richmond has a humid subtropical climate , with hot and humid summers and generally cool winters	What is Richmond's Köppen climate classification?
However, dry periods lasting several weeks do occur, especially in autumn when long periods of pleasant, mild weather are most common	What season in Richmond is most likely to see periods of dryness?
The James River reaches tidewater at Richmond where flooding may occur in every month of the year, most frequently in March and least in July	What is the most likely month for the James to flood Richmond?
As of the census of 2000, there were 197,790 people, 84,549 households, and 43,627 families residing in the city	In 2000, how many families lived in Richmond?
During the late 1980s and early 1990s, Richmond experienced a spike in overall crime, in particular, the city's murder rate	What crime notably increased in Richmond over the course of the 1980s?
In the Reformed church tradition, the first Presbyterian Church in the City of Richmond was First Presbyterian Church, organized on June 18, 1812	What is the oldest Presbyterian church in Richmond?
There are two Orthodox Synagogues, Keneseth Beth Israel and Chabad of Virginia	Along with Chabad of Virginia, what is the other Orthodox synagogue in Richmond?
They used to meet in Temple #24 located on North Avenue	Where did Richmond's Nation of Islam members initially meet?
Some 6,000 families of Indian descent resided in the Richmond Region as of 2011	How many Indian-descended families lived in or around Richmond in 2011?
The city is home to both the United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit, one of 13 United States courts of appeals, and the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, one of 12 Federal Reserve Banks, as well as offices for international companies such as Genworth Financial, CapitalOne, Philip Morris USA, and numerous other banks and brokerages	What federal court is located in Richmond?
] has more than 575,000 square feet of research, laboratory and office space for a diverse tenant mix of companies, research institutes, government laboratories and non-profit organizations	How many square meters of space does Virginia BioTechnology Research Park consist of?
"Departures magazine named Richmond ""The Next Great American Food City"" in August 2014"	"What periodical called Richmond ""The Next Great American Food City""?"
Additionally, Richmond is gaining attention from the film and television industry, with several high-profile films shot in the metro region in the past few years, including the major motion picture Lincoln which led to Daniel Day-Lewis's third Oscar, Killing Kennedy with Rob Lowe, airing on the National Geographic Channel and Turn, starring Jamie Bell and airing on AMC	What movie, which filmed in Richmond, featured Daniel Day-Lewis?
The Greater Richmond area was named the third-best city for business by MarketWatch in September 2007, ranking behind only the Minneapolis and Denver areas and just above Boston	According to MarketWatch, where did Richmond rank among cities for business?
These include SunTrust Bank , Capital One Financial Corporation , and the medical and pharmaceutical giant McKesson 	Where is SunTrust Bank headquartered?
Nearby on Broad Street is the Science Museum of Virginia, housed in the neoclassical former 1919 Broad Street Union Station	What architectural style was the 1919 Broad Street Union Station constructed in?
Near the riverfront is the Richmond National Battlefield Park Visitors Center and the American Civil War Center at Historic Tredegar, both housed in the former buildings of the Tredegar Iron Works, where much of the ordnance for the war was produced	In what former industrial facility is the Richmond National Battlefield Park Visitors Center located?
The John Marshall House, the home of the former Chief Justice of the United States, is also located downtown and features many of his writings and objects from his life	What office was held by the inhabitant of the John Marshall House?
"Hill monument, the Bill ""Bojangles"" Robinson monument in Jackson Ward, the Christopher Columbus monument near Byrd Park, and the Confederate Soldiers and Sailors Monument on Libby Hill"	What was the nickname of Bill Robinson?
"This has led to tensions, as the city Richmond City levied an ""admissions tax"" to fund large arts projects like CentreStage, leading to criticism that it is funding civic initiatives on the backs of the organic local culture"	"What notable project was funded by Richmond's ""admissions tax""?"
Artists who have produced work in the city as a result of these festivals include ROA, Pixel Pancho, Gaia, Aryz, Alexis Diaz, Ever Siempre, Jaz, 2501, Natalia Rak, Pose MSK, Vizie, Jeff Soto, Mark Jenkins, Etam Cru- and local artists Hamilton Glass, Nils Westergard, and El Kamino	Along with Hamilton Glass and El Kamino, who is a mural artist local to Richmond?
From Lewis Hallam's early productions of Shakespeare in Williamsburg, the focus shifted to Richmond's antebellum prominence as a main colonial and early 19th century performance venue for such celebrated American and English actors as William Macready, Edwin Forrest, and the Booth family	In what city did Lewis Hallam present Shakespeare's plays?
Much of Richmond's early architecture was destroyed by the Evacuation Fire in 1865	What disaster destroyed many of the early buildings in Richmond?
It is the second-oldest US statehouse in continuous use and was the first US government building built in the neo-classical style of architecture, setting the trend for other state houses and the federal government buildings in Washington, D	What state has the oldest capital building used continuously since it was built?
The firm of John Russell Pope designed Broad Street Station as well as Branch House on Monument Avenue, designed as a private residence in the Tudor style, now serving as the Branch Museum of Architecture and Design	What architectural style was used to design Branch House?
Second only to New Orleans in its concentration of cast iron work, the city is home to a unique collection of cast iron porches, balconies, fences, and finials	What United States city has the most cast iron architecture?
Minoru Yamasaki designed the Federal Reserve Building which dominates the downtown skyline	Who was the designer of the Federal Reserve Building?
Belle Isle, at various former times a Powhatan fishing village, colonial-era horse race track, and Civil War prison camp, is the larger of the two, and contains many bike trails as well as a small cliff that is used for rock climbing instruction	What Native American tribe at one time lived on Belle Isle?
Two other major parks in the city along the river are Byrd Park and Maymont, located near the Fan District	What part of Richmond is Maymont close to?
Richmond is not home to any major league professional sports teams, but since 2013, the Washington Redskins of the National Football League have held their summer training camp in the city	What sport do the Washington Redskins play?
The Richmond International Raceway has hosted NASCAR Sprint Cup races since 1953, as well as the Capital City 400 from 1962 − 1980	When did the RIR begin to host the Capital City 400?
The Richmond Times-Dispatch, the local daily newspaper in Richmond with a Sunday circulation of 120,000, is owned by BH Media, a subsidiary of Warren Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway company	What company owns the company that owns the Richmond Times-Dispatch?
with 553,950 homes according to Nielsen Market Research	Per Nielsen, how many homes exist in the Richmond-Petersburg DMA?
Richmond city government consists of a city council with representatives from nine districts serving in a legislative and oversight capacity, as well as a popularly elected, at-large mayor serving as head of the executive branch	How many representatives make up the Richmond city council?
As the first African American Baptist Minister elected to the Richmond City Council, Prince's election paved the way for a political paradigm shift in politics that persist today	What is A. Carl Prince's religious affiliation?
The city of Richmond operates 28 elementary schools, nine middle schools, and eight high schools, serving a total student population of 24,000 students	How many high schools are there in Richmond?
The Richmond area has many major institutions of higher education, including Virginia Commonwealth University , University of Richmond , Virginia Union University , Virginia College , South University - Richmond , Union Theological Seminary & Presbyterian School of Christian Education , and the Baptist Theological Seminary in Richmond 	What type of university is the University of Richmond?
The Greater Richmond area is served by the Richmond International Airport , located in nearby Sandston, seven miles southeast of Richmond and within an hour drive of historic Williamsburg, Virginia	How many kilometers away from Richmond is Richmond International Airport?
Richmond is a major hub for intercity bus company Greyhound Lines, with its terminal at 2910 N Boulevard	What is the street address if the Greyhound bus terminal in Richmond?
Local transit and paratransit bus service in Richmond, Henrico, and Chesterfield counties is provided by the Greater Richmond Transit Company 	What counties does the GRTC link to Richmond?
The suburban Staples Mill Road Station is located on a major north-south freight line and receives all service to and from all points south including, Raleigh, Durham, Savannah, Newport News, Williamsburg and Florida	What station services all southern rail traffic passing through Richmond?
Electricity in the Richmond Metro area is provided by Dominion Virginia Power	Who is Richmond's electricity supplier?
The wastewater utility also operates and maintains 1,500 miles of sanitary sewer and pumping stations, 38 miles of intercepting sewer lines, and the Shockoe Retention Basin, a 44-million-gallon stormwater reservoir used during heavy rains	How many kilometers of sewer lines exist in Richmond?
Among the vast varieties of microorganisms, relatively few cause disease in otherwise healthy individuals	Of the huge amount of microorganisms, how many cause disease in otherwise healthy individuals?
"One way of proving that a given disease is ""infectious"", is to satisfy Koch's postulates , which demands that the infectious agent be identified only in patients and not in healthy controls, and that patients who contract the agent also develop the disease"	What is one way of proving that a given disease is infectious?
Infectious diseases are sometimes called contagious disease when they are easily transmitted by contact with an ill person or their secretions (e	When are infectious diseases called contagious diseases? 
Most humans are not easily infected	What group is not easily infected?
Wound colonization refers to nonreplicating microorganisms within the wound, while in infected wounds, replicating organisms exist and tissue is injured	What does wound colonization refer to?
Because it is normal to have bacterial colonization, it is difficult to know which chronic wounds are infected	Why is it difficult to now which chronic wounds are infected?
Disease can arise if the host's protective immune mechanisms are compromised and the organism inflicts damage on the host	Disease can arise when an organism inflicts what on the host?
Persistent infections occur because the body is unable to clear the organism after the initial infection	Why do persistent infections occur?
Diagnosis of infectious disease sometimes involves identifying an infectious agent either directly or indirectly	What does diagnosis of an infectious sometimes involve identifying? 
Diagnosis of infectious disease is nearly always initiated by medical history and physical examination	How is diagnosis of infectious disease almost always initiated?
Microbiological culture is a principal tool used to diagnose infectious disease	What type of culture is a principal tool used to diagnose infectious disease?
In the absence of suitable plate culture techniques, some microbes require culture within live animals	What are live animals required by?
Another principal tool in the diagnosis of infectious disease is microscopy	What is microscopy used for?
Almost all cells readily stain with a number of basic dyes due to the electrostatic attraction between negatively charged cellular molecules and the positive charge on the dye	What do almost all cells readily stain with?
The isolation of enzymes from infected tissue can also provide the basis of a biochemical diagnosis of an infectious disease	What needs to be isolated from infected tissue to provide a biochemical diagnosis of an infectious disease?
Serological methods are highly sensitive, specific and often extremely rapid tests used to identify microorganisms	What methods are highly sensitive, specifc and rapid tests used to identify microorganisms?
Complex serological techniques have been developed into what are known as Immunoassays	What are immunoassays?
Technologies based upon the polymerase chain reaction method will become nearly ubiquitous gold standards of diagnostics of the near future, for several reasons	What does the acronym PCR expand to?
Thus, the technological ability to detect any infectious agent rapidly and specifically are currently available	What technological ability with regards to detection is currently available? 
For example, in the early 1980s, prior to the appearance of AZT for the treatment of AIDS, the course of the disease was closely followed by monitoring the composition of patient blood samples, even though the outcome would not offer the patient any further treatment options	What is used in the treatment of AIDS?
Techniques like hand washing, wearing gowns, and wearing face masks can help prevent infections from being passed from one person to another	What can wearing gowns and face masks help prevent?
One of the ways to prevent or slow down the transmission of infectious diseases is to recognize the different characteristics of various diseases	Recognizing the different characteristics of various diseases is one way to do what?
Another effective way to decrease the transmission rate of infectious diseases is to recognize the effects of small-world networks	Recognizing the effects of small-world networks allows one to decrease what?
Resistance to infection may be acquired following a disease, by asymptomatic carriage of the pathogen, by harboring an organism with a similar structure , or by vaccination	What is resistance to infection known technically as?
The clearance of the pathogens, either treatment-induced or spontaneous, it can be influenced by the genetic variants carried by the individual patients	What can the clearance of pathogens be influenced by in an individual?
When infection attacks the body, anti-infective drugs can suppress the infection	What type of drugs can suppress an infection when it attacks the body?
The top three single agent/disease killers are HIV/AIDS, TB and malaria	What are the top three killer diseases?
The medical treatment of infectious diseases falls into the medical field of Infectious Disease and in some cases the study of propagation pertains to the field of Epidemiology	What medical field does the treatment of infectious diseases fall into?
A number of studies have reported associations between pathogen load in an area and human behavior	What have a number of studies found a correlation between?
Evidence of infection in fossil remains is a subject of interest for paleopathologists, scientists who study occurrences of injuries and illness in extinct life forms	What profession finds evidence of infection in fossil remains to be interesting?
Hunting is the practice of killing or trapping any animal, or pursuing or tracking it with the intent of doing so	What is the practice of killing or trapping any animal?
Furthermore, evidence exists that hunting may have been one of the multiple environmental factors leading to extinctions of the holocene megafauna and their replacement by smaller herbivores	What does evidence suggest hunting may have been a factor in the extinction of?
While it is undisputed that early humans were hunters, the importance of this for the emergence of the Homo genus from the earlier Australopithecines, including the production of stone tools and eventually the control of fire, are emphasised in the hunting hypothesis and de-emphasised in scenarios that stress omnivory and social interaction, including mating behaviour, as essential in the emergence of human behavioural modernity	What is undisputed about early humans?
Hunter-gathering lifestyles remained prevalent in some parts of the New World, Sub-Saharan Africa, and Siberia, as well as all of Australia, until the European Age of Discovery	What type of lifestyle was prevalent in Siberia until the European Age of Discovery?
Archaeologist Louis Binford criticised the idea that early hominids and early humans were hunters	What is Louis Binford's profession?
Even as animal domestication became relatively widespread and after the development of agriculture, hunting was usually a significant contributor to the human food supply	What was a significant contributor to the human food supply?
On ancient reliefs, especially from Mesopotamia, kings are often depicted as hunters of big game such as lions and are often portrayed hunting from a war chariot	What are kings often depicted as on ancient reliefs?
In most parts of medieval Europe, the upper class obtained the sole rights to hunt in certain areas of a feudal territory	Who in medieval Europe obtained the sole rights to hunt in certain areas of a feudal territory?
Hindu scriptures describe hunting as an acceptable occupation, as well as a sport of the kingly	What kind of occupation do Hindu scriptures describe hunting as being?
From early Christian times, hunting has been forbidden to Roman Catholic Church clerics	Who has hunting been forbidden to since early Christian times?
Nevertheless, although a distinction between lawful and unlawful hunting is undoubtedly permissible, it is certain that a bishop can absolutely prohibit all hunting to the clerics of his diocese, as was done by synods at Milan, Avignon, Liège, Cologne, and elsewhere	What distinction is undoubtedly permissible?
New Zealand has a strong hunting culture	What does New Zealand have?
During the feudal and colonial times in British India, hunting was regarded as a regal sport in the numerous princely states, as many maharajas and nawabs, as well as British officers, maintained a whole corps of shikaris , who were native professional hunters	What was hunting regarded as in British India?
Regional social norms are generally antagonistic to hunting, while a few sects, such as the Bishnoi, lay special emphasis on the conservation of particular species, such as the antelope	What norms are generally antagonistic to hunting?
"Unarmed fox hunting on horseback with hounds is the type of hunting most closely associated with the United Kingdom; in fact, ""hunting"" without qualification implies fox hunting"	What type of hunting is most closely associated with the UK?
Shooting as practised in Britain, as opposed to traditional hunting, requires little questing for game—around thirty-five million birds are released onto shooting estates every year, some having been factory farmed	What does shooting in Britain require little questing for?
Hunting is primarily regulated by state law; additional regulations are imposed through United States environmental law in the case of migratory birds and endangered species	What law primarily regulates hunting?
"Hunting big game typically requires a ""tag"" for each animal harvested"	What is required when hunting big game?
Gun usage in hunting is typically regulated by game category, area within the state, and time period	How is gun usage typically regulated?
Hunting in the United States is not associated with any particular class or culture; a 2006 poll showed seventy-eight percent of Americans supported legal hunting, although relatively few Americans actually hunt	What is hunting in the U.S. not associated with?
Regulation of hunting within the United States dates from the 19th century	When do hunting regulations date from in the US?
Each year, nearly $200 million in hunters' federal excise taxes are distributed to state agencies to support wildlife management programs, the purchase of lands open to hunters, and hunter education and safety classes	How much money is distributed to state agencies to support wildlife management programs each year?
Varmint hunting is an American phrase for the selective killing of non-game animals seen as pests	What is varmint hunting an American phrase for?
When Internet hunting was introduced in 2005, allowing people to hunt over the Internet using remotely controlled guns, the practice was widely criticised by hunters as violating the principles of fair chase	When was internet hunting introduced?
There is a very active tradition of hunting of small to medium-sized wild game in Trinidad and Tobago	Where is there a very active tradition of hunting of small to medium-sized wild game?
Hunting is claimed to give resource managers an important tool in managing populations that might exceed the carrying capacity of their habitat and threaten the well-being of other species, or, in some instances, damage human health or safety	What does hunting give resource managers an important tool?
In the 19th century, southern and central European sport hunters often pursued game only for a trophy, usually the head or pelt of an animal, which was then displayed as a sign of prowess	What did sport hunters in the 19th century purse game for?
"A scientific study in the journal, Biological Conservation, states that trophy hunting is of ""major importance to conservation in Africa by creating economic incentives for conservation over vast areas, including areas which may be unsuitable for alternative wildlife-based land uses such as photographic ecotourism"	What Continent did the biological Conservation state trophy hunting is of major importance to the conservation of?
A variety of industries benefit from hunting and support hunting on economic grounds	What do a variety of industries benefit from?
Hunting also has a significant financial impact in the United States, with many companies specialising in hunting equipment or speciality tourism	Hunting has significant financial impact in what country?
However, excessive hunting and poachers have also contributed heavily to the endangerment, extirpation and extinction of many animals, such as the quagga, the great auk, Steller's sea cow, the thylacine, the bluebuck, the Arabian oryx, the Caspian and Javan tigers, the markhor, the Sumatran rhinoceros, the bison, the North American cougar, the Altai argali sheep, the Asian elephant and many more, primarily for commercial sale or sport	What has excessive hunting contributed heavily to?
On 16 March 1934, President Franklin D	When did Roosevelt sign the Migratory Bird Hunting Stamp Act?
Since 1934, the sale of Federal Duck Stamps has generated $670 million, and helped to purchase or lease 5,200,000 acres of habitat	How much money has the sale of Federal Duck Stamps generated since 1934?
The Arabian oryx, a species of large antelope, once inhabited much of the desert areas of the Middle East	What large species of antelope once made its home in the desert areas of the Middle East?
The American bison is a large bovid which inhabited much of western North America prior to the 1800s, living on the prairies in large herds	What type of creature is the American bison?
In contrast, Botswana has recently been forced to ban trophy hunting following a precipitous wildlife decline	Why has Botswana been forced to ban trophy hunting altogether?
Kathmandu) is the capital and largest municipality of Nepal	What country is Kathmandu the capital of?
The city has a rich history, spanning nearly 2000 years, as inferred from inscriptions found in the valley	About how long has Kathmandu existed?
"In Sanskrit, Kastha means ""wood"" and Mandap means ""covered shelter"""	What does काष्ठ mean in English?
The colophons of ancient manuscripts, dated as late as the 20th century, refer to Kathmandu as Kasthamandap Mahanagar in Nepal Mandala	What is the ancient name of Kathmandu?
"According to Swayambhu Purana, present-day Kathmandu was once a huge and deep lake names ""Nagdaha"" as it was full of snakes"	According to legend, what body of water once existed on the site of Kathmandu?
The Kirata dynasty was established by Yalamber	Who was the founder of the Kirata dynasty?
The Licchavis from the Indo-Gangetic plain migrated north and defeated the Kiratas, establishing the Licchavi dynasty	Who won the war between the Licchavis and the Kiratas?
Eventually, the Licchavi ruler Gunakamadeva merged Koligram and Dakshin Koligram, founding the city of Kathmandu	Kathmandu resulted from the merger of what two settlements?
The Licchavi era was followed by the Malla era	Who ruled Nepal after the Licchavi?
During the later part of the Malla era, Kathmandu Valley comprised four fortified cities: Kantipur, Lalitpur, Bhaktapur, and Kirtipur	How many cities were present in the Kathmandu Valley in the late Malla period?
The Gorkha Kingdom ended the Malla confederation after the Battle of Kathmandu in 1768	Who won the Battle of Kathmandu?
Kathmandu is located in the northwestern part of the Kathmandu Valley to the north of the Bagmati River and covers an area of 50	What river is south of Kathmandu?
Kathmandu is dissected by eight rivers, the main river of the valley, the Bagmati and its tributaries, of which the Bishnumati, Dhobi Khola, Manohara Khola, Hanumant Khola, and Tukucha Khola are predominant	How many rivers travel through Kathmandu?
The urban area of the Kathmandu valley is split among three different districts which extend very little beyond the valley fringe, except towards the southern ranges, which have comparatively small population	How many districts make up the Kathmandu Valley urban area?
Under Köppen's climate classification, portions of the city with lower elevations have a humid subtropical climate , while portions of the city with higher elevations generally have a subtropical highland climate	Along with a subtropical highland climate, what climate classification covers Kathmandu?
The city generally has a climate with warm days followed by cool nights and mornings	What sort of temperature is typical on a Kathmandu morning?
From centuries past, Lhasa Newar merchants of Kathmandu have conducted trade across the Himalaya and contributed to spreading art styles and Buddhism across Central Asia	What religion proliferated throughout Central Asia in part due to the efforts of Lhasa Newar merchants?
The economic output of the metropolitan area alone is worth more than one third of national GDP around $6	Approximately what portion of Nepal's GDP is produced by the Kathmandu metropolitan area?
This industry started around 1950, as the country's political makeup changed and ended the country's isolation from the rest of the world	Approximately when did the Nepalese tourism industry begin?
Since then, tourism in Nepal has thrived; it is the country's most important industry	What is the most significant industry in Nepal?
"The neighbourhood of Thamel is Kathmandu's primary ""traveller's ghetto"", packed with guest houses, restaurants, shops, and bookstores, catering to tourists"	What Kathmandu neighborhood is noted for its abundance of tourists?
There are several four-star hotels such as Hotel Vaishali, Hotel Narayani, The Blue Star and Grand Hotel	How many stars is Kathmandu's Grand Hotel?
Metropolitan Kathmandu is divided into five sectors: the Central Sector, the East Sector, the North Sector, the City Core and the West Sector	How many sectors make up the Kathmandu metropolitan area?
The fire service, known as the Barun Yantra Karyalaya, opened its first station in Kathmandu in 1937 with a single vehicle	What is Kathmandu's fire department called?
In one decade, the population increased from 427,045 in 1991 to 671,805 in 2001	What was the population of Kathmandu in 1991?
), Khas Brahmins (20	What is the third largest ethnic group in Kathmandu?
The monuments of Kathmandu City have been influenced over the centuries by Hindu and Buddhist religious practices	What religion does Changunarayan belong to?
There are three preserved Durbar Squares in Kathmandu valley and one unpreserved in Kirtipur	Where is a Durban Square located that is not preserved?
Kumari is believed to be the bodily incarnation of the goddess Taleju until she menstruates, after which it is believed that the goddess vacates her body	What is Durga called in Nepali?
The Pashupatinath Temple is a famous 5th century Hindu temple dedicated to Lord Shiva 	When was the Pashupatinath Temple built?
Believers in Pashupatinath are allowed to enter the temple premises, but non-Hindu visitors are allowed to view the temple only from the across the Bagmati River	What people make up the majority of Pashupatinath followers?
The Boudhanath, , is one of the holiest Buddhist sites in Nepal, along with Swayambhu	To what religion is Boudhanath holy?
The base of the stupa has 108 small depictions of the Dhyani Buddha Amitabha	Who is pictured on the stupa's base?
Swayambhu is a Buddhist stupa atop a hillock at the northwestern part of the city	In what part of Kathmandu is Swayambhu located?
"Kathmandu valley is described as ""an enormous treasure house of art and sculptures"", which are made of wood, stone, metal, and terracotta, and found in profusion in temples, shrines, stupas, gompas, chaityasm and palaces"	Kathmandu valley contains art made of metal, terracotta, wood and what other substance?
The religious art of Nepal and Kathmandu in particular consists of an iconic symbolism of the Mother Goddesses such as: Bhavani, Durga, Gaja-Lakshmi, Hariti-Sitala, Mahsishamardini, Saptamatrika , and Sri-Lakshmi	What types of deities are Bhavani and Durga?
Kathmandu is home to a number of museums and art galleries, including the National Museum of Nepal and the Natural History Museum of Nepal	Along with the National Museum of Nepal, what notable Nepalese museum is present in Kathmandu?
The National Museum is located in the western part of Kathmandu, near the Swayambhunath stupa in an historical building	In what area of Kathmandu is the National Museum?
The Tribhuvan Museum contains artifacts related to the King Tribhuvan 	When did Tribhuvan die?
The enclosed compound of the Narayanhity Palace Museum is in the north-central part of Kathmandu	Where in Kathmandu is Narayanhity Palace Museum located?
The Taragaon Museum presents the modern history of the Kathmandu Valley	What is the Taragaon Museum dedicated to?
Art in Kathmandu is vibrant, demonstrating a fusion of traditionalism and modern art, derived from a great number of national, Asian, and global influences	Contemporary Kathmandu art combines traditional influences with what type of art?
The Srijana Contemporary Art Gallery, located inside the Bhrikutimandap Exhibition grounds, hosts the work of contemporary painters and sculptors, and regularly organizes exhibitions	Where can one find the Srijana Contemporary Art Gallery?
It is the largest library in the country with more than 70,000 books	How many volumes are contained in Nepal's National Library?
The city contains several theaters, including the National Dance Theatre in Kanti Path, the Ganga Theatre, the Himalayan Theatre and the Aarohan Theater Group founded in 1982	Where can the National Dance Theatre be found in Kathmandu?
Consumption of beef is very uncommon and considered taboo in many places	What meat is very rarely eaten in Kathmandu?
Kathmandu had only one western-style restaurant in 1955	How many restaurants in the western style were present in Kathmandu circa 1955?
Kathmandu has a larger proportion of tea drinkers than coffee drinkers	What beverage is consumed by more people in Kathmandu, coffee or tea?
Most of the fairs and festivals in Kathmandu originated in the Malla period or earlier	To what era do a majority of Kathmandu's festivals date back to?
The Bagmati River which flows through Kathmandu is considered a holy river both by Hindus and Buddhists, and many Hindu temples are located on the banks of this river	In addition to Hindus, who regards the Bagmati River as sacred?
Legendary Princess Bhrikuti and artist Araniko from that tradition of Kathmandu valley played a significant role in spreading Buddhism in Tibet and China	In what century was Bhrikuti said to live?
Kirant Mundhum is one of the indigenous animistic practices of Nepal	What type of religion is Kirant Mundhum?
A Jain temple is present in Gyaneshwar, where Jains practice their faith	Where can a temple of the Jain faith be found?
Institute of Medicine, the central college of Tribhuwan University is the first medical college of Nepal and is located in Maharajgunj, Kathmandu	Of what university is the Institute of Medicine a constituent college?
Football and Cricket are the most popular sports among the younger generation in Nepal and there are several stadiums in the city	Along with cricket, what sport is highly popular among Nepali youth?
The total length of roads in Nepal is recorded to be ), as of 2003–04	As of 2004, how many kilometers of road existed in Nepal?
The main international airport serving Kathmandu and thus Nepal is the Tribhuvan International Airport, located about six kilometers (6 km (3	What is Nepal's primary airport for international travel?
6	Starting in the center of Kathmandu, how many kilometers must one travel to reach Tribhuvan International Airport?
KMC's first international relationship was established in 1975 with the city of Eugene, Oregon, United States	In what US state did Kathmandu first establish an international relationship?
Myocardial infarction or acute myocardial infarction , commonly known as a heart attack, occurs when blood flow stops to a part of the heart causing damage to the heart muscle	What is the scientific name for blood flow?
A number of tests are useful to help with diagnosis, including electrocardiograms , blood tests, and coronary angiography	What is used to confirm a artery spasm?
Aspirin is an appropriate immediate treatment for a suspected MI	What drugstore item is a poor treatment for MI?
The onset of symptoms in myocardial infarction is usually gradual, over several minutes, and rarely instantaneous	What type of heart problem has a typically instantaneous onset?
Other symptoms include diaphoresis , weakness, light-headedness, nausea, vomiting, and palpitations	What is excessive weakness called?
The most common symptoms of MI in women include dyspnea, weakness, and fatigue	What are the most common symptoms for men?
Estimates of the prevalence of silent MIs vary between 22 and 64%	What percentage of silent cases are later discovered on electrocardiograms?
Tobacco smoking and short-term exposure to air pollution such as carbon monoxide, nitrogen dioxide, and sulfur dioxide have been associated with MI	What forms of air pollution does smoking tobacco cause?
The evidence for saturated fat is unclear	Evidence for what product has proven to be unequivocally dangerous?
Genome-wide association studies have found 27 genetic variants that are associated with an increased risk of myocardial infarction	How many genetic variants are shown to decrease risk of an MI?
Acute myocardial infarction refers to two subtypes of acute coronary syndrome, namely non-ST-elevated and ST-elevated MIs, which are most frequently a manifestation of coronary artery disease	How many subtypes does ST-elevated MI have?
If impaired blood flow to the heart lasts long enough, it triggers a process called the ischemic cascade; the heart cells in the territory of the occluded coronary artery die and do not grow back	What does necrosis trigger?
Injured heart tissue conducts electrical impulses more slowly than normal heart tissue	Normal heart tissue is slower than what?
Myocardial infarction in the setting of plaque results from underlying atherosclerosis	The setting of plaque is called what?
For a person to qualify as having a STEMI, in addition to reported angina, the ECG must show new ST elevation in two or more adjacent ECG leads	How many anginas must a person report to have a STEMI?
"a ""MIBI scan"") or thallium-201 chloride can be used in nuclear medicine to visualize areas of reduced blood flow in conjunction with physiological or pharmacological stress"	What is another name for thallium-201?
People are often advised to keep a diet where less than 30% of the energy intake derives from fat, a diet that contains less than 7% of the energy intake in the form of saturated fat, and a diet that contains less than 300 mg/day of cholesterol	How many mg of fat is suggested for a healthy person's diet?
Aspirin has been studied extensively in people considered at increased risk of myocardial infarction	What drug has been shown to have significant benefits for people at risk of an MI?
Primary percutaneous coronary intervention is the treatment of choice for STEMI if it can be performed in a timely manner	What is the shortened way of referring to thrombolysis?
Thrombolysis agents include streptokinase, reteplase, alteplase, and tenecteplase	What enzymes in the body typically destroy blood clots?
Clopidogrel is added in many cases, particularly if the risk of cardiovascular events is felt to be high and early PCI is being considered	When is clopidogrel removed?
Cardiac rehabilitation benefits many who have experienced myocardial infarction, even if there has been substantial heart damage and resultant left ventricular failure; ideally other medical conditions that could interfere with participation should be managed optimally	Cardiac rehabilitation is not an option under what circumstances?
Some risk factors for death include age, hemodynamic parameters , ST-segment deviation, diabetes, serum creatinine, peripheral vascular disease, and elevation of cardiac markers	How many classes of ST-segmentation are there?
Acute complications may include heart failure if the damaged heart is no longer able to pump blood adequately around the body; aneurysm of the left ventricle myocardium; ventricular septal rupture or free wall rupture; mitral regurgitation, in particular if the infarction causes dysfunction of the papillary muscle; Dressler's syndrome; and abnormal heart rhythms, such as ventricular fibrillation, ventricular tachycardia, atrial fibrillation, and heart block	What is Dressler's syndrome?
46 million deaths and deaths due to IHD were expected to double during 1985–2015	What percentage of deaths does unipolar depressive disorder cause?
At common law, in general, a myocardial infarction is a disease, but may sometimes be an injury	What is a myocardial infarction is always considered to be?
Before the 20th century, the term matter included ordinary matter composed of atoms and excluded other energy phenomena such as light or sound	What did the term matter include after the 20th century?
This atomic matter is in turn made up of interacting subatomic particles—usually a nucleus of protons and neutrons, and a cloud of orbiting electrons	What orbits around electrons?
Matter commonly exists in four states : solid, liquid and gas, and plasma	How many forms of solids are there?
Matter should not be confused with mass, as the two are not quite the same in modern physics	What is considered the same as matter?
Different fields of science use the term matter in different, and sometimes incompatible, ways	What is always used the same way across fields?
In the context of relativity, mass is not an additive quantity, in the sense that one can add the rest masses of particles in a system to get the total rest mass of the system	What type of quantity is mass?
The reason for this is that in this definition, electromagnetic radiation as well as the energy of electromagnetic fields contributes to the mass of systems, and therefore appears to add matter to them	What type of radiation does not contribute mass?
A source of definition difficulty in relativity arises from two definitions of mass in common use, one of which is formally equivalent to total energy , and the other of which is referred to as rest mass or invariant mass and is independent of the observer	How many difficulties are there in defining mass?
"Since such mass is measured as part of the mass of ordinary matter in complex systems, the ""matter"" status of ""massless particles"" and fields of force becomes unclear in such systems"	What is electromagnetic radiation stored in?
"A definition of ""matter"" more fine-scale than the atoms and molecules definition is: matter is made up of what atoms and molecules are made of, meaning anything made of positively charged protons, neutral neutrons, and negatively charged electrons"	What is made out of negatively charged protons?
Leptons , and quarks combine to form atoms, which in turn form molecules	What is the most famous electron?
The quark–lepton definition of ordinary matter, however, identifies not only the elementary building blocks of matter, but also includes composites made from the constituents 	What are atoms and molecules elementary forms of?
The Standard Model groups matter particles into three generations, where each generation consists of two quarks and two leptons	What model has two generations?
Baryonic matter is the part of the universe that is made of baryons 	What is dark energy composed of?
The Pauli exclusion principle requires that only two fermions can occupy a quantum state, one spin-up and the other spin-down	What is the name of the principle for the ground state of gas?
Strange matter is a particular form of quark matter, usually thought of as a liquid of up, down, and strange quarks	What is quark matter usually thought of as?
In bulk, matter can exist in several different forms, or states of aggregation, known as phases, depending on ambient pressure, temperature and volume	What are phases known as?
In particle physics and quantum chemistry, antimatter is matter that is composed of the antiparticles of those that constitute ordinary matter	What is composed of antimatter?
Antimatter is not found naturally on Earth, except very briefly and in vanishingly small quantities 	Where is antimatter found naturally in large quantities?
In the early universe, it is thought that matter and antimatter were equally represented, and the disappearance of antimatter requires an asymmetry in physical laws called the charge parity violation	What is the disappearance of matter linked to?
In astrophysics and cosmology, dark matter is matter of unknown composition that does not emit or reflect enough electromagnetic radiation to be observed directly, but whose presence can be inferred from gravitational effects on visible matter	What does dark matter emit to make it visible?
546 BC) regarded water as the fundamental material of the world	What did Parmenides believe was the fundamental material of the world?
Matter in this understanding does not exist independently (i	What exists independently?
For Descartes, matter has only the property of extension, so its only activity aside from locomotion is to exclude other bodies: this is the mechanical philosophy	What philosophy did Aristotle describe?
Isaac Newton inherited Descartes' mechanical conception of matter	When was Descartes born?
"There is an entire literature concerning the ""structure of matter"", ranging from the ""electrical structure"" in the early 20th century, to the more recent ""quark structure of matter"", introduced today with the remark: Understanding the quark structure of matter has been one of the most important advances in contemporary physics"	When did de Sabbata and Gasperini write?
In the late 19th century with the discovery of the electron, and in the early 20th century, with the discovery of the atomic nucleus, and the birth of particle physics, matter was seen as made up of electrons, protons and neutrons interacting to form atoms	What field of physics began in the 19th century?
These quarks and leptons interact through four fundamental forces: gravity, electromagnetism, weak interactions, and strong interactions	How many quarks and leptons are there?
"The term ""matter"" is used throughout physics in a bewildering variety of contexts: for example, one refers to ""condensed matter physics"", ""elementary matter"", ""partonic"" matter, ""dark"" matter, ""anti""-matter, ""strange"" matter, and ""nuclear"" matter"	Physics has broadly agreed on the definition of what?
